ID_researcher	GROUPING_department	PMID_1	PMID_2	PMID_3	PMID_4	PMID_5	PMID_6	PMID_7	PMID_8	PMID_9	PMID_10	ABSTRACT_1	ABSTRACT_2	ABSTRACT_3	ABSTRACT_4	ABSTRACT_5	ABSTRACT_6	ABSTRACT_7	ABSTRACT_8	ABSTRACT_9	ABSTRACT_10
Abazeed, Mohamed	Translational Hematology and Oncology Research	30202792	28017592	27109210	26384271	23980093	18784256	30709865	29795413	27088724	NA	There has been little progress in the use of patient-derived xenografts (PDX) to guide individual therapeutic strategies. In part, this can be attributed to the operational challenges of effecting successful engraftment and testing multiple candidate drugs in a clinically workable timeframe. It also remains unclear whether the ancestral tumor will evolve along similar evolutionary trajectories in its human and rodent hosts in response to similar selective pressures (i.e., drugs). Herein, we combine a metastatic clear cell adenocarcinoma PDX with a timely 3 mouse x 1 drug experimental design, followed by a co-clinical trial to longitudinally guide a patient's care. Using this approach, we accurately predict response to first- and second-line therapies in so far as tumor response in mice correlated with the patient's clinical response to first-line therapy (gemcitabine/nivolumab), development of resistance and response to second-line therapy (paclitaxel/neratinib) before these events were observed in the patient. Treatment resistance to first-line therapy in the PDX is coincident with biologically relevant changes in gene and gene set expression, including upregulation of phase I/II drug metabolism (CYP2C18, UGT2A, and ATP2A1) and DNA interstrand cross-link repair (i.e., XPA, FANCE, FANCG, and FANCL) genes. A total of 5.3% of our engrafted PDX collection is established within 2 weeks of implantation, suggesting our experimental designs can be broadened to other cancers. These findings could have significant implications for PDX-based avatars of aggressive human cancers.	Stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) is the standard of care for medically inoperable patients with early-stage NSCLC. However, NSCLC is composed of several histological subtypes and the impact of this heterogeneity on SBRT treatments has yet to be established. We analyzed 740 patients with early-stage NSCLC treated definitively with SBRT from 2003 through 2015. We calculated cumulative incidence curves using the competing risk method and identified predictors of local failure using Fine and Gray regression. Overall, 72 patients had a local failure, with a cumulative incidence of local failure at 3 years of 11.8%. On univariate analysis, squamous histological subtype, younger age, fewer medical comorbidities, higher body mass index, higher positron emission tomography standardized uptake value, central tumors, and lower radiation dose were associated with an increased risk for local failure. On multivariable analysis, squamous histological subtype (hazard ratio = 2.4 p = 0.008) was the strongest predictor of local failure. Patients with squamous cancers fail SBRT at a significantly higher rate than do those with adenocarcinomas or NSCLC not otherwise specified, with 3-year cumulative rates of local failure of 18.9% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 12.7-25.1), 8.7% (95% CI: 4.6-12.8), and 4.1% (95% CI: 0-9.6), respectively. Our results demonstrate an increased rate of local failure in patients with squamous cell carcinoma. Standard approaches for radiotherapy that demonstrate efficacy for a population may not achieve optimal results for individual patients. Establishing the differential dose effect of SBRT across histological groups is likely to improve efficacy and inform ongoing and future studies that aim to expand indications for SBRT.	Radiotherapy is not currently informed by the genetic composition of an individual patient's tumour. To identify genetic features regulating survival after DNA damage, here we conduct large-scale profiling of cellular survival after exposure to radiation in a diverse collection of 533 genetically annotated human tumour cell lines. We show that sensitivity to radiation is characterized by significant variation across and within lineages. We combine results from our platform with genomic features to identify parameters that predict radiation sensitivity. We identify somatic copy number alterations, gene mutations and the basal expression of individual genes and gene sets that correlate with the radiation survival, revealing new insights into the genetic basis of tumour cellular response to DNA damage. These results demonstrate the diversity of tumour cellular response to ionizing radiation and establish multiple lines of evidence that new genetic features regulating cellular response after DNA damage can be identified.	Current predictors of radiation response are largely limited to clinical and histopathologic parameters, and extensive systematic analyses of the correlation between radiation sensitivity and genomic parameters remain lacking. In the era of precision medicine, the lack of -omic determinants of radiation response has hindered the personalization of radiation delivery to the unique characteristics of each patient׳s cancer and impeded the discovery of new therapies that can be administered concurrently with radiation therapy. The cataloging of the -omic determinants of radiation sensitivity of cancer has great potential in enhancing efficacy and limiting toxicity in the context of a new approach to precision radiotherapy. Herein, we review concepts and data that contribute to the delineation of the radiogenomic landscape of cancer. 	Radiotherapy is one of the mainstays of anticancer treatment, but the relationship between the radiosensitivity of cancer cells and their genomic characteristics is still not well defined. Here, we report the development of a high-throughput platform for measuring radiation survival in vitro and its validation in comparison with conventional clonogenic radiation survival analysis. We combined results from this high-throughput assay with genomic parameters in cell lines from squamous cell lung carcinoma, which is standardly treated by radiotherapy, to identify parameters that predict radiation sensitivity. We showed that activation of NFE2L2, a frequent event in lung squamous cancers, confers radiation resistance. An expression-based, in silico screen nominated inhibitors of phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) as NFE2L2 antagonists. We showed that the selective PI3K inhibitor, NVP-BKM120, both decreased NRF2 protein levels and sensitized NFE2L2 or KEAP1-mutant cells to radiation. We then combined results from this high-throughput assay with single-sample gene set enrichment analysis of gene expression data. The resulting analysis identified pathways implicated in cell survival, genotoxic stress, detoxification, and innate and adaptive immunity as key correlates of radiation sensitivity. The integrative and high-throughput methods shown here for large-scale profiling of radiation survival and genomic features of solid-tumor-derived cell lines should facilitate tumor radiogenomics and the discovery of genotype-selective radiation sensitizers and protective agents.	Golgi-localized, gamma-Ear-containing, ADP-ribosylation factor-binding proteins (GGAs) and adaptor protein-1 (AP-1) mediate clathrin-dependent trafficking of transmembrane proteins between the trans-Golgi network (TGN) and endosomes. In yeast, the vacuolar sorting receptor Vps10p follows a direct pathway from the TGN to the late endosome/prevacuolar compartment (PVC), whereas, the processing protease Kex2p partitions between the direct pathway and an indirect pathway through the early endosome. To examine the roles of the Ggas and AP-1 in TGN-PVC transport, we used a cell-free assay that measures delivery to the PVC of either Kex2p or a chimeric protein (K-V), in which the Vps10p cytosolic tail replaces the Kex2p tail. Either antibody inhibition or dominant-negative Gga2p completely blocked K-V transport but only partially blocked Kex2p transport. Deletion of APL2, encoding the beta subunit of AP-1, did not affect K-V transport but partially blocked Kex2p transport. Residual Kex2p transport seen with apl2Delta membranes was insensitive to dominant-negative Gga2p, suggesting that the apl2Delta mutation causes Kex2p to localize to a compartment that precludes Gga-dependent trafficking. These results suggest that yeast Ggas facilitate the specific and direct delivery of Vps10p and Kex2p from the TGN to the PVC and that AP-1 modulates Kex2p trafficking through a distinct pathway, presumably involving the early endosome.	Somatic TET2 mutations (TET2<sup>MT</sup>) are frequent in myeloid neoplasia (MN), particularly chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML). TET2<sup>MT</sup> includes mostly loss-of-function/hypomorphic hits. Impaired TET2 activity skews differentiation of hematopoietic stem cells toward proliferating myeloid precursors. This study was prompted by the observation of frequent biallelic TET2 gene inactivations (biTET2<sup> i </sup> ) in CMML. We speculated that biTET2<sup> i </sup> might be associated with distinct clinicohematological features. We analyzed TET2<sup>MT</sup> in 1045 patients with MN. Of 82 biTET2<sup> i </sup> cases, 66 were biTET2<sup>MT</sup>, 13 were hemizygous TET2<sup>MT</sup>, and 3 were homozygous TET2<sup>MT</sup> (uniparental disomy); the remaining patients (denoted biTET2<sup> - </sup> hereafter) were either monoallelic TET2<sup>MT</sup> (n = 96) or wild-type TET2 (n = 823). Truncation mutations were found in 83% of biTET2<sup> i </sup> vs 65% of biTET2<sup> - </sup> cases (P = .02). TET2 hits were founder lesions in 72% of biTET2<sup> i </sup> vs 38% of biTET2<sup> - </sup> cases (P &lt; .0001). In biTET2<sup> i </sup> , significantly concurrent hits included SRSF2<sup>MT</sup> (33%; P &lt; .0001) and KRAS/NRAS<sup>MT</sup> (16%; P = .03) as compared with biTET2<sup> - </sup> When the first TET2 hit was ancestral in biTET2<sup> i </sup> , the most common subsequent hits affected a second TET2<sup>MT</sup>, followed by SRSF2<sup>MT</sup>, ASXL1<sup>MT</sup>, RAS<sup>MT</sup>, and DNMT3A<sup>MT</sup>BiTET2<sup> i </sup> patients without any monocytosis showed an absence of SRSF2<sup>MT</sup>BiTET2<sup> i </sup> patients were older and had monocytosis, CMML, normal karyotypes, and lower-risk disease compared with biTET2<sup> - </sup> patients. Hence, while a second TET2 hit occurred frequently, biTET2<sup> i </sup> did not portend faster progression but rather determined monocytic differentiation, consistent with its prevalence in CMML. Additionally, biTET2<sup> i </sup> showed lower odds of cytopenias and marrow blasts (≥5%) and higher odds of myeloid dysplasia and marrow hypercellularity. Thus, biTET2<sup> i </sup> might represent an auxiliary assessment tool in MN.	Somatic mutations in TET2 are common in myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), myeloproliferative, and overlap syndromes. TET2 mutant (TET2<sup>MT</sup>) clones are also found in asymptomatic elderly individuals, a condition referred to as clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential (CHIP). In various entities of TET2<sup>MT</sup> neoplasia, we examined the phenotype in relation to the strata of TET2 hits within the clonal hierarchy. Using deep sequencing, 1781 mutations were found in 1205 of 4930 patients; 40% of mutant cases were biallelic. Hierarchical analysis revealed that of TET2<sup>MT</sup> cases &gt;40% were ancestral, e.g., representing 8% of MDS. Higher (earlier) TET2 lesion rank within the clonal hierarchy (greater clonal burden) was associated with impaired survival. Moreover, MDS driven by ancestral TET2<sup>MT</sup> is likely derived from TET2<sup>MT</sup> CHIP with a penetrance of ~1%. Following ancestral TET2 mutations, individual disease course is determined by secondary hits. Using multidimensional analyses, we demonstrate how hits following the TET2 founder defect induces phenotypic shifts toward dysplasia, myeloproliferation, or progression to AML. In summary, TET2<sup>MT</sup> CHIP-derived MDS is a subclass of MDS that is distinct from de novo disease.	Systematic efforts to sequence the cancer genome have identified large numbers of mutations and copy number alterations in human cancers. However, elucidating the functional consequences of these variants, and their interactions to drive or maintain oncogenic states, remains a challenge in cancer research. We developed REVEALER, a computational method that identifies combinations of mutually exclusive genomic alterations correlated with functional phenotypes, such as the activation or gene dependency of oncogenic pathways or sensitivity to a drug treatment. We used REVEALER to uncover complementary genomic alterations associated with the transcriptional activation of β-catenin and NRF2, MEK-inhibitor sensitivity, and KRAS dependency. REVEALER successfully identified both known and new associations, demonstrating the power of combining functional profiles with extensive characterization of genomic alterations in cancer genomes.	NA
Achkar, Jean-Paul	Inflammation and Immunity	31275068	30535303	26039718	25105946	24241240	23598818	22170232	21115545	18622155	17879519	Despite advancements in medical therapy, many patients with Crohn's disease continue to require surgery for intestinal resection and/or management of perianal disease at some point in their disease course. Unfortunately, in this complex group of patients, postoperative disease recurrence rates are high. Medical prophylaxis can be used to prevent Crohn's disease recurrence or manage residual disease after surgery, but the ideal timing to start medications after surgery varies based on patient risk factors and patient preference for medication use. Currently, the largest medical treatment effects are seen with thiopurines and antitumor necrosis factor antibodies, but there are continually expanding options as new medical therapies are developed. A proposed algorithm stratified based on patient risk factors is provided.	Scientific research into the effects and mechanisms of acupuncture for gastrointestinal diseases including inflammatory bowel disease has been rapidly growing in the past several decades. In this review, we discuss the history, theory, and methodology of acupuncture and review potentially beneficial mechanisms of action of acupuncture for managing inflammatory bowel disease. Acupuncture has been shown to decrease disease activity and inflammation via increase of vagal activity in inflammatory bowel disease. Acupuncture has demonstrated beneficial roles in the regulation of gut dysbiosis, intestinal barrier function, visceral hypersensitivity, gut motor dysfunction, depression/anxiety, and pain, all of which are factors that can significantly impact quality of life in patients with inflammatory bowel disease. A number of clinical trials have been performed to investigate the therapeutic effects of acupuncture in ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease. Although the data from these trials are promising, more studies are needed given the heterogeneous and multifactorial aspects of inflammatory bowel disease. There is also an important need to standardize acupuncture methodology, study designs, and outcome measurements.	Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) has long been known to have genetic risk factors because of increased prevalence in the relatives of affected individuals. However, genome-wide association studies have only explained limited heritability in IBD. The observed globally rising incidence of IBD has implicated the role of environmental factors. The hidden unexplained heritability remains to be explored. Recent aggregate evidence has highlighted the extent and nature of host genome-microbiome associations, a key next step in understanding the mechanisms of pathogenesis in IBD. An individual's gut microbiota is shaped not only by genetic but also by environmental factors like diet. Minimizing exposure of the intestinal lumen to selected food items has shown to prolong the remission state of IBD. Among a genetically susceptible host, the shift of gut microbiota (or 'dysbiosis') can lead to increasing the susceptibility to IBD. With the advances in high-throughput large-scale 'omics' technologies in combination with creative data mining and system biology-based network analyses, the complexity of biological functional networks behind the cause of IBD has become more approachable. Therefore, the hidden heritability in IBD has become more explainable, and can be attributable to the changing environmental factors, epigenetic modifications, and gene-host microbial ('in-vironmental') or gene-extrinsic environmental interactions. This review discusses the perspectives of relevance to clinical translation with emphasis on gene-environment interactions. No doubt, the use of system-based approaches will lead to the development of alternative, and hopefully better, diagnostic, prognostic, and monitoring tools in the management of IBD.	Inflammation is increasingly being recognized as an important factor in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis and outcome of percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). The purpose of this study was to compare conventional risk factors and PCI outcomes in patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and non-IBD controls with angiographically proven coronary artery disease (CAD). We performed a historical cohort study of patients with IBD who were diagnosed with CAD by cardiac catheterization between January 2004 and June 2010. Four non-IBD controls with CAD were matched to each IBD case. Framingham risk score and corresponding 10-year coronary heart disease risk were calculated for all the patients. Outcomes were obtained using a prospectively maintained Institutional Interventional Catheterization Database. One hundred thirty-one patients with IBD (54 Crohn's disease, 77 ulcerative colitis) with CAD and 524 matched non-IBD controls with CAD were included. Patients with IBD were younger (65.3 ± 10.0 versus 67.8 ± 11.0 yr, P = 0.016), had lower prevalence of active tobacco use (10.7% versus 18.7%, P = 0.03), and had lower body mass index (28.0 ± 5.1 versus 29.4 ± 6.4, P = 0.026) compared with controls. Patients with IBD had lower rates of severe left anterior descending artery disease (56% versus 73%, P &lt; 0.0002) and multivessel CAD (71% versus 79%, P = 0.05). There was no difference in post-PCI major adverse cardiovascular outcomes (defined as all-cause death, myocardial infarction, cerebrovascular events, and target lesion revascularization). Patients with IBD are diagnosed with CAD at a younger age as compared with non-IBD patients, are less likely to be active smokers and have lower body mass index. Post-PCI outcomes in patients with IBD with CAD are similar to non-IBD controls with CAD.	Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified at least 133 ulcerative colitis (UC) associated loci. The role of genetic factors in clinical practice is not clearly defined. The relevance of genetic variants to disease pathogenesis is still uncertain because of not characterized gene-gene and gene-environment interactions. We examined the predictive value of combining the 133 UC risk loci with genetic interactions in an ongoing inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) GWAS. The Wellcome Trust Case-Control Consortium (WTCCC) IBD GWAS was used as a replication cohort. We applied logic regression (LR), a novel adaptive regression methodology, to search for high-order interactions. Exploratory genotype correlations with UC sub-phenotypes [extent of disease, need of surgery, age of onset, extra-intestinal manifestations and primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC)] were conducted. The combination of 133 UC loci yielded good UC risk predictability [area under the curve (AUC) of 0.86]. A higher cumulative allele score predicted higher UC risk. Through LR, several lines of evidence for genetic interactions were identified and successfully replicated in the WTCCC cohort. The genetic interactions combined with the gene-smoking interaction significantly improved predictability in the model (AUC, from 0.86 to 0.89, P = 3.26E-05). Explained UC variance increased from 37 to 42 % after adding the interaction terms. A within case analysis found suggested genetic association with PSC. Our study demonstrates that the LR methodology allows the identification and replication of high-order genetic interactions in UC GWAS datasets. UC risk can be predicted by a 133 loci and improved by adding gene-gene and gene-environment interactions. 	Genome-wide association studies have identified at least 71 Crohn's disease (CD) genetic risk loci, but the role of gene-gene interactions is unclear. The value of genetic variants in clinical practice is not defined because of limited explained heritability. We examined model predictability of combining the 71 CD risk alleles and genetic interactions in an ongoing inflammatory bowel disease genome-wide association study. The Wellcome Trust Case Control Consortium inflammatory bowel disease genome-wide association study was used as a replicate cohort. We used logic regression, an adaptive regression methodology, to search for high-order binary predictors (e.g., single-nucleotide polymorphism [SNP] interactions). The combined 71 CD SNPs had good CD risk predictability (area under the curve of 0.75 and 0.73 in the 2 cohorts). Higher cumulative allele score predicted higher CD risk, but a relatively small difference in cumulative allele scores was observed between CD and controls (49 versus 47, P &lt; 0.001). Through LR, we identified high-order genetic interactions and significantly improved the model predictability (area under the curve, from 0.75 to 0.77, P &lt; 0.0001). A genetic interaction model, including NOD2, ATG16L1, IL10/IL19, C13orf31, and chr21q loci, was discovered and successfully replicated in the independent Wellcome Trust Case Control Consortium cohort. The explained heritability of the 71 CD SNPs alone was 24% and increased to 27% after adding the genetic interactions. A novel approach allowed the identification and replication of genetic interactions among NOD2, ATG16L1, IL10/IL19, C13orf31, and chr21q loci. CD risk can be predicted by a model of 71 CD loci and improved by adding genetic interactions.	The major histocompatibility complex (MHC) on chromosome 6p is an established risk locus for ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn's disease (CD). We aimed to better define MHC association signals in UC and CD by combining data from dense single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) genotyping and from imputation of classical human leukocyte antigen (HLA) types, their constituent SNPs and corresponding amino acids in 562 UC, 611 CD and 1428 control subjects. Univariate and multivariate association analyses were performed, controlling for ancestry. In univariate analyses, absence of the rs9269955 C allele was strongly associated with risk for UC (P = 2.67 × 10(-13)). rs9269955 is a SNP in the codon for amino acid position 11 of HLA-DRβ1, located in the P6 pocket of the HLA-DR antigen binding cleft. This amino acid position was also the most significantly UC-associated amino acid in omnibus tests (P = 2.68 × 10(-13)). Multivariate modeling identified rs9269955-C and 13 other variants in best predicting UC vs control status. In contrast, there was only suggestive association evidence between the MHC and CD. Taken together, these data demonstrate that variation at HLA-DRβ1, amino acid 11 in the P6 pocket of the HLA-DR complex antigen binding cleft is a major determinant of chromosome 6p association with UC.	The majority of patients with Crohn's disease (CD) require surgery during the course of their disease, but such surgery is typically not curative. Although some studies suggest that the disease state is theoretically reset to its earliest phase following surgery, disease phenotype and natural history of CD do not change significantly after surgery, leading to high rates of recurrence. Factors predisposing to this recurrence are not well defined, so there is a need for and a unique opportunity to develop a better understanding of the pathogenesis of recurrent inflammation and associated risk factors after an ileocolic resection. This paper reviews the postoperative disease outcome and evolution based on defining the combination of the patient's microbial flora, environmental exposure history, immune response and genetic make-up.	Genetic factors play an important role in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease. In this review, we will provide an update on the rapid advances in the discovery of inflammatory bowel disease, primarily Crohn's disease, associated genes. Seven recently published Crohn's disease genome-wide association studies have confirmed prior findings related to the nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain 2 (NOD2) gene and the IBD5 locus. In addition, 10 novel loci have been identified and well replicated. Several promising associations between Crohn's disease and gene variants have been identified and replicated, the two most widely replicated being variants in the IL23R and ATG16L1 genes. These findings highlight and further support the importance of the immune system and its interactions with the intestinal microflora in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease.	Aminosalicylates are the first-line therapy for patients with mild to moderate active ulcerative colitis. Treatment should start at dosages of 4.8 g per day of the active 5-aminosalicylate moiety, rather than starting at a lower dosage and increasing if treatment fails. Infliximab has been shown to be effective and is now approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in patients who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy.
Ahern, Philip	Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences	19161422	20732640	24950201	31138692	28041931	24452263	21677749	20393462	17030949	23898195	Immune responses in the intestine are tightly regulated to ensure host protective immunity in the absence of immune pathology. Interleukin-23 (IL-23) has recently been shown to be a key player in influencing the balance between tolerance and immunity in the intestine. Production of IL-23 is enriched within the intestine and has been shown to orchestrate T-cell-dependent and T-cell-independent pathways of intestinal inflammation through effects on T-helper 1 (Th1) and Th17-associated cytokines. Furthermore, IL-23 restrains regulatory T-cell responses in the gut, favoring inflammation. Polymorphisms in the IL-23 receptor have been associated with susceptibility to inflammatory bowel diseases (IBDs) in humans, pinpointing the IL-23 axis as a key, conserved pathway in intestinal homeostasis. In addition to its role in dysregulated inflammatory responses, there is also evidence that IL-23 and the Th17 axis mediate beneficial roles in host protective immunity and barrier function in the intestine. Here we discuss the dual roles of IL-23 in intestinal immunity and how IL-23 and downstream effector pathways may make novel targets for the treatment of IBD.	Mutations in the IL23R gene are linked to inflammatory bowel disease susceptibility. Experimental models have shown that interleukin-23 (IL-23) orchestrates innate and T cell-dependent colitis; however, the cell populations it acts on to induce intestinal immune pathology are unknown. Here, using Il23r(-/-) T cells, we demonstrated that T cell reactivity to IL-23 was critical for development of intestinal pathology, but not for systemic inflammation. Through direct signaling into T cells, IL-23 drove intestinal T cell proliferation, promoted intestinal Th17 cell accumulation, and enhanced the emergence of an IL-17A(+)IFN-gamma(+) population of T cells. Furthermore, IL-23R signaling in intestinal T cells suppressed the differentiation of Foxp3(+) cells and T cell IL-10 production. Although Il23r(-/-) T cells displayed unimpaired Th1 cell differentiation, these cells showed impaired proliferation and failed to accumulate in the intestine. Together, these results highlight the multiple functions of IL-23 signaling in T cells that contribute to its colitogenic activity.	The gut microbiota codevelops with the immune system beginning at birth. Mining the microbiota for bacterial strains responsible for shaping the structure and dynamic operations of the innate and adaptive arms of the immune system represents a formidable combinatorial problem but one that needs to be overcome to advance mechanistic understanding of microbial community and immune system coregulation and to develop new diagnostic and therapeutic approaches that promote health. Here, we discuss a scalable, less biased approach for identifying effector strains in complex microbial communities that impact immune function. The approach begins by identifying uncultured human fecal microbiota samples that transmit immune phenotypes to germ-free mice. Clonally arrayed sequenced collections of bacterial strains are constructed from representative donor microbiota. If the collection transmits phenotypes, effector strains are identified by testing randomly generated subsets with overlapping membership in individually housed germ-free animals. Detailed mechanistic studies of effector strain-host interactions can then be performed. 	Undernutrition in children is a pressing global health problem, manifested in part by impaired linear growth (stunting). Current nutritional interventions have been largely ineffective in overcoming stunting, emphasizing the need to obtain better understanding of its underlying causes. Treating Bangladeshi children with severe acute malnutrition with therapeutic foods reduced plasma levels of a biomarker of osteoclastic activity without affecting biomarkers of osteoblastic activity or improving their severe stunting. To characterize interactions among the gut microbiota, human milk oligosaccharides (HMOs), and osteoclast and osteoblast biology, young germ-free mice were colonized with cultured bacterial strains from a 6-mo-old stunted infant and fed a diet mimicking that consumed by the donor population. Adding purified bovine sialylated milk oligosaccharides (S-BMO) with structures similar to those in human milk to this diet increased femoral trabecular bone volume and cortical thickness, reduced osteoclasts and their bone marrow progenitors, and altered regulators of osteoclastogenesis and mediators of Th2 responses. Comparisons of germ-free and colonized mice revealed S-BMO-dependent and microbiota-dependent increases in cecal levels of succinate, increased numbers of small intestinal tuft cells, and evidence for activation of a succinate-induced tuft cell signaling pathway linked to Th2 immune responses. A prominent fucosylated HMO, 2'-fucosyllactose, failed to elicit these changes in bone biology, highlighting the structural specificity of the S-BMO effects. These results underscore the need to further characterize the balance between, and determinants of, osteoclastic and osteoblastic activity in stunted infants/children, and suggest that certain milk oligosaccharides may have therapeutic utility in this setting.	Ensuring that gut microbiota respond consistently to prescribed dietary interventions, irrespective of prior dietary practices (DPs), is critical for effective nutritional therapy. To address this, we identified DP-associated gut bacterial taxa in individuals either practicing chronic calorie restriction with adequate nutrition (CRON) or without dietary restrictions (AMER). When transplanted into gnotobiotic mice, AMER and CRON microbiota responded predictably to CRON and AMER diets but with variable response strengths. An individual's microbiota is connected to other individuals' communities (&quot;metacommunity&quot;) by microbial exchange. Sequentially cohousing AMER-colonized mice with two different groups of CRON-colonized mice simulated metacommunity effects, resulting in enhanced responses to a CRON diet intervention and changes in several metabolic features in AMER animals. This response was driven by an influx of CRON DP-associated taxa. Certain DPs may impair responses to dietary interventions, necessitating the introduction of diet-responsive bacterial lineages present in other individuals and identified using the strategies described.	Identifying a scalable, unbiased method for discovering which members of the human gut microbiota influence specific physiologic, metabolic, and immunologic phenotypes remains a challenge. We describe a method in which a clonally arrayed collection of cultured, sequenced bacteria was generated from one of several human fecal microbiota samples found to transmit a particular phenotype to recipient germ-free mice. Ninety-four bacterial consortia of diverse size, randomly drawn from the culture collection, were introduced into germ-free animals. We identified an unanticipated range of bacterial strains that promoted accumulation of colonic regulatory T cells (T(regs)) and expansion of Nrp1(lo/-) peripheral T(regs), as well as strains that modulated mouse adiposity and cecal metabolite concentrations, using feature selection algorithms and follow-up monocolonizations. This combinatorial approach enables a systems-level understanding of microbial contributions to human biology.	Marked changes in socio-economic status, cultural traditions, population growth and agriculture are affecting diets worldwide. Understanding how our diet and nutritional status influence the composition and dynamic operations of our gut microbial communities, and the innate and adaptive arms of our immune system, represents an area of scientific need, opportunity and challenge. The insights gleaned should help to address several pressing global health problems.	The key role of interleukin (IL)-23 in the pathogenesis of autoimmune and chronic inflammatory disorders is supported by the identification of IL-23 receptor (IL-23R) susceptibility alleles associated with inflammatory bowel disease, psoriasis and ankylosing spondylitis. IL-23-driven inflammation has primarily been linked to the actions of T-helper type 17 (TH17) cells. Somewhat overlooked, IL-23 also has inflammatory effects on innate immune cells and can drive T-cell-independent colitis. However, the downstream cellular and molecular pathways involved in this innate intestinal inflammatory response are poorly characterized. Here we show that bacteria-driven innate colitis is associated with an increased production of IL-17 and interferon-gamma in the colon. Stimulation of colonic leukocytes with IL-23 induced the production of IL-17 and interferon-gamma exclusively by innate lymphoid cells expressing Thy1, stem cell antigen 1 (SCA-1), retinoic-acid-related orphan receptor (ROR)-gammat and IL-23R, and these cells markedly accumulated in the inflamed colon. IL-23-responsive innate intestinal cells are also a feature of T-cell-dependent models of colitis. The transcription factor ROR-gammat, which controls IL-23R expression, has a functional role, because Rag-/-Rorc-/- mice failed to develop innate colitis. Last, depletion of Thy1+ innate lymphoid cells completely abrogated acute and chronic innate colitis. These results identify a previously unrecognized IL-23-responsive innate lymphoid population that mediates intestinal immune pathology and may therefore represent a target in inflammatory bowel disease.	Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the gastrointestinal tract involving aberrant activation of innate and adaptive immune responses. We have used two complementary models of IBD to examine the roles of interleukin (IL)-12 family cytokines in bacterially induced intestinal inflammation. Our results clearly show that IL-23, but not IL-12, is essential for the induction of chronic intestinal inflammation mediated by innate or adaptive immune mechanisms. Depletion of IL-23 was associated with decreased proinflammatory responses in the intestine but had little impact on systemic T cell inflammatory responses. These results newly identify IL-23 as a driver of innate immune pathology in the intestine and suggest that selective targeting of IL-23 represents an attractive therapeutic approach in human IBD.	Sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB) colonize the guts of ∼50% of humans. We used genome-wide transposon mutagenesis and insertion-site sequencing, RNA-Seq, plus mass spectrometry to characterize genetic and environmental factors that impact the niche of Desulfovibrio piger, the most common SRB in a surveyed cohort of healthy US adults. Gnotobiotic mice were colonized with an assemblage of sequenced human gut bacterial species with or without D. piger and fed diets with different levels and types of carbohydrates and sulfur sources. Diet was a major determinant of functions expressed by this artificial nine-member community and of the genes that impact D. piger fitness; the latter includes high- and low-affinity systems for using ammonia, a limiting resource for D. piger in mice consuming a polysaccharide-rich diet. Although genes involved in hydrogen consumption and sulfate reduction are necessary for its colonization, varying dietary-free sulfate levels did not significantly alter levels of D. piger, which can obtain sulfate from the host in part via cross-feeding mediated by Bacteroides-encoded sulfatases. Chondroitin sulfate, a common dietary supplement, increased D. piger and H2S levels without compromising gut barrier integrity. A chondroitin sulfate-supplemented diet together with D. piger impacted the assemblage's substrate utilization preferences, allowing consumption of more reduced carbon sources and increasing the abundance of the H2-producing Actinobacterium, Collinsella aerofaciens. Our findings provide genetic and metabolic details of how this H2-consuming SRB shapes the responses of a microbiota to diet ingredients and a framework for examining how individuals lacking D. piger differ from those who harbor it. 
Alberts, Jay	Biomedical Engineering	31034314	30946318	30921170	30901418	30826715	30735197	30543801	30135951	30109948	29794620	The aim of this project was to 1) evaluate the potential of the Two Minute Walk Test (2MWT) to detect declines in gait velocity under dual task conditions, and 2) compare gait velocity overground and on a self-paced treadmill in Parkinson's disease (PD). Twenty-three individuals with PD completed the 2MWT under single and dual task (serial 7s) conditions overground and on a self-paced treadmill. There was a significant decrease in gait velocity from single to dual task conditions overground (1.32±.22 m/sec to 1.10±.25 m/sec, p &lt;.001) and on the self-paced treadmill (1.24±.21 m/sec to 1.05±.25 m/sec, p &lt;.001). Overground and treadmill velocities were not statistically different from each other; however, differences approached or exceeded the minimal clinical important difference. The 2MWT coupled with a cognitive task provides an effective model of identifying dual task declines in individuals with PD. Further studies comparing overground and self-paced treadmill velocity is warranted in PD.	Despite the widespread awareness of concussion across all levels of sport, the management of concussion from youth to college is inconsistent and fragmented. A fundamental gap contributing to inconsistent care is the lack of a scalable, systematic approach to document initial injury characteristics following concussion. The purpose of this study was to determine differences in injury profiles and management of youth, high school, and college athletes using a mobile application for incident report documentation.A cohort study was conducted in which concussion electronic incident report data from 46 high schools and colleges, and Cleveland Clinic ambulatory concussion clinics were gathered and analyzed.In sum, 1421 (N = 88 youth, N = 1171 high school and N = 162 college) athletes with sport-related concussions were included.Despite the relative absence of red flags, youth athletes had a greater probability of being sent to the emergency department than high school and collegiate athletes. Over 60% of athletes were removed from play immediately post-injury. Injury recognition was delayed in 25% of athletes due to delayed symptom reporting (20% of males, 16% of females) or delayed symptom onset (5% of males, 9% of females). A significantly greater incidence of red flags was evident in males, and in high school and collegiate athletes compared to youth athletes.The high frequency of youth athletes sent to the emergency department, despite the absence of red flags, may be a reflection of inadequate medical coverage at youth events, ultimately resulting in unnecessary utilization of emergency medicine services. The relatively high incidence of delayed injury reporting implies that additional educational efforts targeting student-athletes and the utilization of resources to improve injury detection are warranted. The systematic collection of injury-related demographics through the electronic mobile application facilitated interdisciplinary communication and improved the efficiency of managing athletes with concussion.	In older adults hospitalized with heart failure (HF), cognitive impairment is associated with increased hospital readmission and mortality risk. There is no consensus on an objective, scalable method of cognitive screening in this population. The aim of this project was to determine the feasibility, test-retest reliability, and convergent validity of the Processing Speed Test (PST), a test of information processing, attention, and working memory administered on an iPad in older adults hospitalized with HF. Patients hospitalized with HF (n = 30) and age-, sex-, and education-matched controls (n = 30) participated in the study. To determine test-retest reliability, the PST was administered on an iPad on 2 occasions, separated by 12 to 48 hours. The Symbol Digit Modalities Test was administered at the first testing time point to determine convergent validity. Test-retest reliability of the PST was 0.80 and 0.92 in individuals with HF and controls, respectively. Convergent validity was 0.72 and 0.90 for individuals with HF and controls, respectively. Time to complete the PST was similar for both individuals with HF and controls (&lt;5 minutes). The iPad-based deployment of the PST was a feasible, reliable, and valid cognitive screen for older adults hospitalized with HF. Using a tablet-based self-administered cognitive screen in older adults with HF provides a method of cognitive assessment that is amenable to widespread clinical utilization.	Dual-task performance, in which individuals complete two or more activities simultaneously, is impaired following mild traumatic brain injury. The aim of this project was to develop a dual-task paradigm that may be conducive to military utilization in evaluating cognitive-motor function in a standardized and scalable manner by leveraging mobile device technology. Fifty healthy young adult civilians (18-24 years) completed four balance stances and a number discrimination task under single- and dual-task conditions. Postural stability was quantified using data gathered from iPad's native accelerometer and gyroscope. Cognitive task difficulty was manipulated by presenting stimuli at 30, 60, or 90 per minute. Performance of cognitive and balance tasks was compared between single- and dual-task trials. Cognitive performance from single- to dual-task paradigms showed no significant main effect of balance condition or the interaction of condition by frequency. From single- to dual-task conditions, a significant difference in postural control was revealed in only one stance: tandem with eyes closed, in which a slight improvement in postural stability was observed under dual-task conditions. The optimal dual-task paradigm to evaluate cognitive-motor performance with minimal floor and ceiling effects consists of tandem stance with eyes closed while stimuli are presented at a rate of one per second.	Emerging literature indicates aerobic exercise improves the motor symptoms associated with Parkinson's disease (PD). However, the impact of aerobic exercise on functional locomotor performance has not been evaluated systematically. The aim of this project was to determine the impact of an 8-week high intensity aerobic exercise intervention on Timed Up and Go (TUG) performance in PD. Fifty-nine participants with idiopathic PD completed 24 aerobic exercise sessions over 8 weeks. Two modes of exercise were utilized: forced (FE) and voluntary (VE). A mobile application was used to gather biomechanical data for the characterization of the TUG subtasks: Sit-Stand, Gait, Turning, and Stand-Sit. Participants were assessed in an off medication state at: 1) baseline, prior to any exercise intervention, and 2) after completion of exercise treatment. At baseline, the VE group completed the TUG in 9.41 s, while the FE group completed the TUG significantly faster in 8.0 s. Following the exercise intervention, the VE group decreased TUG time to 8.9 s (p &lt; .01). Both exercise groups demonstrated significant improvements in Turning Velocity, time of Gait phase and Stand-Sit duration. Overall mobility in participants with PD was significantly improved after high intensity aerobic exercise training. Improvements in turning and gait speed, and in Stand-Sit times indicate exercise is effective in improving functional aspects of mobility that are often associated with falls and quality of life measures. These results support the use of high intensity aerobic exercise for improvements in functional lower extremity performance in a PD population.	The evidence-informed standardization of care along disease lines is recommended to improve outcomes and reduce healthcare costs. The aim of this project is to 1) describe the development and implementation of the Concussion Carepath, 2) demonstrate the process of integrating technology in the form of a mobile application to enable the carepath and guide clinical decision-making, and 3) present data on the utility of the C3 app in facilitating decision-making throughout the injury recovery process. A multi-disciplinary team of experts in concussion care was formed to develop an evidence-informed algorithm, outlining best practices for the clinical management of concussion along three phases of recovery - acute, subacute, and post-concussive. A custom mobile application, the Cleveland Clinic Concussion (C3) app was developed and validated to provide a platform for the systematic collection of objective, biomechanical outcomes and to provide guidance in clinical decision-making in the field and clinical environments. The Cleveland Clinic Concussion app included an electronic incident report, assessment modules to measure important aspects of cognitive and motor function, and a return to play module to systematically document the six phases of post-injury rehabilitation. The assessment modules served as qualifiers within the carepath algorithm, driving referral for specialty services as indicated. Overall, the carepath coupled with the C3 app functioned in unison to facilitate communication among the interdisciplinary team, prevent stagnant care, and drive patients to the right provider at the right time for efficient and effective clinical management.	The aim of this project was to determine the effects of lower extremity aerobic exercise coupled with upper extremity repetitive task practice (RTP) on health-related quality of life (HRQOL) and depressive symptomology in individuals with chronic stroke. Secondary analysis of data from 2 randomized controlled trials. Research laboratory. Individuals (N=40) with chronic stroke. Participants received one of the following interventions: forced exercise+RTP (FE+RTP, n=16), voluntary exercise+RTP (VE+RTP, n=16), or stroke education+RTP (EDU+RTP, n=8). All groups completed 24 sessions, each session lasting 90 minutes. The Center for Epidemiological Studies-Depression Scale (CES-D) and Stroke Impact Scale (SIS) were used to assess depressive symptomology and HRQOL. There were no significant group-by-time interactions for any of the SIS domains or composite scores. Examining the individual groups following the intervention, those in the FE+RTP and VE+RTP groups demonstrated significant improvements in the following SIS domains: strength, mobility, hand function, activities of daily living, and the physical composite. In addition, the FE+RTP group demonstrated significant improvements in memory, cognitive composite, and percent recovery from stroke. The HRQOL did not change in the EDU+RTP group. Although CES-D scores improved predominantly for those in the FE+RTP group, these improvements were not statistically significant. Overall, results were maintained at the 4-week follow-up. Aerobic exercise, regardless of mode, preceding motor task practice may improve HRQOL in patients with stroke. The potential of aerobic exercise to improve cardiorespiratory endurance, motor outcomes, and HRQOL poststroke justifies its use to augment traditional task practice.	Gait and balance impairments associated with Parkinson's disease (PD) are often refractory to traditional treatments. Objective, quantitative analysis of gait patterns is crucial in successful management of these symptoms. This project aimed to 1) determine if biomechanical metrics from a mobile device inertial measurement unit were sensitive enough to characterize the effects of anti-parkinsonian medication during the Timed Up and Go (TUG) Test, and 2) develop the Cleveland Clinic Mobility and Balance application (CC-MB) to provide clinicians with objective report following completion of the TUG. The CC-MB captured 3-dimensional acceleration and rotational data from people with PD (pwPD) to characterize center of mass movement while performing the TUG. Trials were segmented into four components: Sit-to-Walk, Gait, Turning, and Stand-to-Sit. Thirty pwPD were tested On and Off (12 h) anti-PD medication. Significant improvements (p &lt; 0.05) between On versus Off conditions included: reduction in MDS-UPDRS III motor scores (10.7%), faster trial times (9.3%), more dynamic walking as evident by increased normalized jerk scores (vertical: 17.3%, medial-lateral: 12.3%), shorter turn durations (10.4%), and faster turn velocities (8%). Measures in Sit-to-Walk and Stand-to-Sit did not show significant changes. Trial time and turn velocity showed excellent test-retest reliability (ICC range: 0.83-0.96) across both medication states. A mobile device platform provided quantitative measures of gait and turning during the TUG that detected significant improvements from anti-parkinsonian medications. This platform is a low-cost, easy-to-use tool that can provide objective reports immediately following the clinical assessments, making it ideal for use in and outside the clinical setting.	 Annually, more than 1 million youth athletes in the United States receive or are suspected of receiving a concussion. The Balance Error Scoring System (BESS) is the most commonly used clinical balance evaluation designed to provide a better understanding of the motor-control processes of individuals with concussion. Despite the widespread use of the BESS, a fundamental gap exists in applying this tool to young athletes, as normative values are lacking for this population.  To determine age- and sex-specific normative values for the BESS in youth, high school, and collegiate athletes.  Cross-sectional study.  Local youth sport organizations, high schools, and colleges.  Student-athletes (N = 6762) completed preseason baseline concussion testing as part of a comprehensive concussion-management program. Groups were youth males aged 5 to 13 years (n = 360), high school males aged 14 to 18 years (n = 3743), collegiate males aged 19 to 23 years (n = 497), youth females aged 5 to 13 years (n = 246), high school females aged 14 to 18 years (n = 1673), and collegiate females aged 19 to 23 years (n = 243).  Errors according to the BESS specifications.  Performance on the BESS was worse ( P &lt; .01) in youth athletes than in high school and collegiate athletes. In the youth and high school cohorts, females exhibited better scores than males ( P &lt; .05). Sex was not a factor for collegiate athletes. Data from the youth cohort were further subdivided into 4-year bins to evaluate potential motor-development differences. The error count was highest for 5- to 9-year-old males and decreased with age.  Performance on the BESS depended on sex and age, particularly in youth athletes. These sex- and age-specific normative values provide a reference to facilitate and unify clinical decision making across multiple providers caring for youth athletes with concussions.	Despite the widespread utilization of the Balance Error Scoring System (BESS) in the evaluation of concussion, it has been criticized for its error-based scoring that is susceptible to floor and ceiling effects and substantial inter-rater variability. A biomechanical outcome, Cleveland Clinic Postural Stability Index (CC-PSI), has been developed as an alternative to subjective BESS scoring. The CC-PSI uses inertial sensor data within a mobile device to provide an objective measure of postural sway during the BESS. This project aimed to determine the effect of age and sex on the CC-PSI and report normative values for healthy, active children, adolescents, and young adults. A cross-sectional sample of 6762 student-athletes completed BESS testing. Participants were stratified according to three age groups for each sex. The groups included the following: youth (age, 5-13 yr), males (n = 360), females (n = 246); high school (age, 14-18 yr), males (n = 3743), females (n = 1673); and college (age, 19-23 yr), males (n = 497), females (n = 243). Percentile rankings were determined for each participant to characterize movement of COM in the medial-lateral, anterior-posterior, and trunk rotation directions relative to the entire cohort during the BESS stances. Overall, postural stability was worse in youth compared with high school and collegiate athletes. Specifically, the CC-PSI was significantly worse in youth male athletes compared with high school and collegiate male athletes (P &lt; 0.001). Females exhibited significantly better scores compared with males in youth and high school cohorts (P &lt; 0.01). The CC-PSI provides a quantitative, objective measure of postural stability, overcoming the limitations associated with conventional BESS scoring. Optimal concussion management should use objective age- and sex-specific values in the evaluation of postural stability. The normative values of the CC-PSI may be used in the absence of a baseline BESS evaluation to aid clinical decision making.
Almasan, Alexandru	Cancer Biology	30067424	29995557	28331288	27413424	26537004	26026052	25590803	25308257	25061101	24655592	Apo2 ligand (Apo2L)/tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) is unique to selectively induce apoptosis in tumor cells while sparing normal cells. Thus there is tremendous interest in Apo2L/TRAIL therapy; however, drug resistance is a serious limitation. Autophagy is a cellular housekeeping process that controls protein and organelle turnover, and is almost consistently activated in response to apoptosis-inducing stimuli, including Apo2L/TRAIL. Unlike apoptosis, autophagy leads to cell death or survival depending on the context. Various molecular mechanisms by which autophagy regulates Apo2L/TRAIL-induced apoptosis have been identified. Further, whether autophagy is completed (intact autophagic flux) or not could determine the fate of cancer cells, either cell survival or death. Thus, targeting autophagy is an attractive strategy to overcome Apo2L/TRAIL resistance. We present the current view of how these regulatory mechanisms of this interplay between autophagy and apoptosis may dictate cancer cell response to Apo2L/TRAIL therapy.	Recent reports have made important revelations, uncovering direct regulation of DNA damage response (DDR)-associated proteins and chromatin ubiquitination (Ubn) by macroautophagy/autophagy. Here, we report a previously unexplored connection between autophagy and DDR, via a deubiquitnase (DUB), USP14. Loss of autophagy in prostate cancer cells led to unrepaired DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) as indicated by persistent ionizing radiation (IR)-induced foci (IRIF) formation for γH2AFX, and decreased protein levels and IRIF formation for RNF168, an E3-ubiquitin ligase essential for chromatin Ubn and recruitment of critical DDR effector proteins in response to DSBs, including TP53BP1. Consistently, RNF168-associated Ubn signaling and TP53BP1 IRIF formation were reduced in autophagy-deficient cells. An activity assay identified several DUBs, including USP14, which showed higher activity in autophagy-deficient cells. Importantly, inhibiting USP14 could overcome DDR defects in autophagy-deficient cells. USP14 IRIF formation and protein stability were increased in autophagy-deficient cells. Co-immunoprecipitation and colocalization of USP14 with MAP1LC3B and the UBA-domain of SQSTM1 identified USP14 as a substrate of autophagy and SQSTM1. Additionally, USP14 directly interacted with RNF168, which depended on the MIU1 domain of RNF168. These findings identify USP14 as a novel substrate of autophagy and regulation of RNF168-dependent Ubn and TP53BP1 recruitment by USP14 as a critical link between DDR and autophagy. Given the role of Ubn signaling in non-homologous end joining (NHEJ), the major pathway for repair of IR-induced DNA damage, these findings provide unique insights into the link between autophagy, DDR-associated Ubn signaling and NHEJ DNA repair. ATG7: autophagy related 7; CQ: chloroquine; DDR: DNA damage response; DUB: deubiquitinase; HR: homologous recombination; IR: ionizing radiation; IRIF: ionizing radiation-induced foci; LAMP2: lysosomal associated membrane protein 2; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MIU1: motif interacting with ubiquitin; NHEJ: non homologous end-joining; PCa: prostate cancer; TP53BP1/53BP1: tumor protein p53 binding protein 1; RNF168: ring finger protein 168; SQSTM1/p62 sequestosome 1; γH2AFX/γH2AX: H2A histone family member X: phosphorylated, UBA: ubiquitin-associated; Ub: ubiquitin; Ubn: ubiquitination; USP14: ubiquitin specific peptidase 14.	B-cell lymphoma-2 (BCL-2) family dysfunction and impairment of apoptosis are common in most B-cell lymphoid malignancies. Venetoclax (Venclexta™, formerly ABT-199, GDC-0199) is a highly selective BCL-2 inhibitor, which mimics its BCL-2 homology 3-domain to induce apoptosis. It was approved for treatment of previously treated chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients with 17p deletion early in 2016. It has also been in clinical trials for other B-cell lymphoid malignancies. Unlike the other recently approved targeted agents idelalisib and ibrutinib, so far there has been no relapse reported in some patients. Also, unlike the other targeted agents, it is effective against tumor cells that reside in the blood marrow. Despite its promising outcome in CLL, preclinical data have already uncovered mechanistic insights underlying venetoclax resistance, such as upregulation of MCL-1 or BCL-xL expression and protective signaling from the microenvironment. In this review, we describe the role of the BCL-2 family in the pathogenesis of B-cell lymphoid malignancies, the development of venetoclax, and its current clinical outcome in CLL and other B-cell malignancies. We also discuss the resistance mechanisms that develop following venetoclax therapy, potential strategies to overcome them, and how this knowledge can be translated into clinical applications.	Rituximab has been revolutionized and validated CD20 targeting monoclonal antibody. Although, it is widely used for lymphoma therapy and many patients have been benefited. However significant numbers of patients are refractory or developed resistance to current therapies due to low level of CD20 expression and/or availability on cells surface. Thus development of novel anti-CD20 mAbs with great cell killing ability and enhance CD20 levels on cell surface can potentially exploit lymphoma therapy. In this scenario, we are summarizing the recently developed mAbs against CD20 and compounds that have ability to induce CD20 expression at significant level. We also are providing information regarding combination strategy for use of radiation and anti-CD20 mAbs in vitro. However, it will need to be determined by rigorous at pre-clinical and clinic testing. We hope this review will be beneficial for current research in the area of immunotherapy or radio-immunotherapy.	BCL-xL is an anti-apoptotic BCL-2 family protein that inhibits apoptosis and is overexpressed in many cancers. We have reported that acquired resistance to the BCL-2 inhibitor ABT-199 (venetoclax) is associated with increased BCL-xL expression. Yet, how BCL-xL mediates chemoresistance in hematopoietic malignancies is not clear. This finding may help in design of new strategies for therapeutic intervention to overcome acquired chemoresistance mediated by BCL-xL. We now show that the increased BCL-xL expression was inversely correlated with that of miR-377 in ABT-199-resistant cells. This finding was also extended to a panel of B-cell lymphoid lines and primary chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells. miR-377 suppressed BCL-xL expression by recognizing two binding sites in the BCL-xL 3'-UTR. Mutation of these two miR-377 consensus-binding sites completely abolished its regulatory effect. Expression of a miR-377 mimic downregulated BCL-xL protein expression and significantly increased apoptotic cell death. Expression of a miR-377 inhibitor restored BCL-xL protein expression and limited cell death caused by the hypomethylating agent 5-azacytidine. Thus, miR-377-dependent BCL-xL regulation drives acquired therapeutic resistance to ABT-199. We further show that CLL patients who received a diverse array of chemotherapy regimens also had significantly higher BCL-xL and lower miR377 expression, indicating that exposure to chemotherapy might trigger transcriptional silencing of miR-377, which results in high levels of BCL-xL. Importantly, CLL patients with high BCL-xL/low miR-377 expression had an advanced tumor stage. Moreover, the high BCL-xL expression correlated with short treatment-free survival in 76 CLL patients. miR-377 is located at 14q32 in the DLK1-DIO3 region, which encodes the largest tumor suppressor miRNA cluster in humans. Examination of five additional 14q32 miRNAs revealed that the majority were significantly down-regulated in most CLL patients as well as in ABT-199-resistant cell lines. Remarkably, four of these miRNAs had significantly decreased expression in chemotherapy-treated CLL patients as compared to those untreated. These findings indicate a reduced expression of multiple miRNAs that may reflect a global silencing of this miRNA cluster in therapy-resistant lymphoid cells. These findings reveal a novel mechanism by which down-regulation of miR-377 increases BCL-xL expression, promoting chemotherapy resistance in B-cell lymphoid malignancies.	Exposure to genotoxic agents, such as ionizing radiation (IR), produces DNA damage, leading to DNA double-strand breaks (DSB); IR toxicity is augmented when the DNA repair is impaired. We reported that radiosensitization by a PARP inhibitor (PARPi) was highly prominent in prostate cancer cells expressing the TMPRSS2-ERG gene fusion protein. Here, we show that TMPRSS2-ERG blocks nonhomologous end-joining (NHEJ) DNA repair by inhibiting DNA-PKcs. VCaP cells, which harbor TMPRSS2-ERG and PC3 cells that stably express it, displayed γH2AX and 53BP1 foci constitutively, indicating persistent DNA damage that was absent if TMPRSS2-ERG was depleted by siRNA in VCaP cells. The extent of DNA damage was enhanced and associated with TMPRSS2-ERG's ability to inhibit DNA-PKcs function, as indicated by its own phosphorylation (Thr2609, Ser2056) and that of its substrate, Ser1778-53BP1. DNA-PKcs deficiency caused by TMPRSS2-ERG destabilized critical NHEJ components on chromatin. Thus, XRCC4 was not recruited to chromatin, with retention of other NHEJ core factors being reduced. DNA-PKcs autophosphorylation was restored to the level of parental cells when TMPRSS2-ERG was depleted by siRNA. Following IR, TMPRSS2-ERG-expressing PC3 cells had elevated Rad51 foci and homologous recombination (HR) activity, indicating that HR compensated for defective NHEJ in these cells, hence addressing why TMPRSS2-ERG alone did not lead to radiosensitization. However, the presence of TMPRSS2-ERG, by inhibiting NHEJ DNA repair, enhanced PARPi-mediated radiosensitization. IR in combination with PARPi resulted in enhanced DNA damage in TMPRSS2-ERG-expressing cells. Therefore, by inhibiting NHEJ, TMPRSS2-ERG provides a synthetic lethal interaction with PARPi in prostate cancer patients expressing TMPRSS2-ERG.	Overexpression of anti-apoptotic BCL-2 family members is a hallmark of many lymphoid malignancies, including chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) that can be targeted with small molecule inhibitors. ABT-199 is a rationally designed BCL-2 homology (BH)-3 mimetic that specifically binds to BCL-2, but not to MCL-1 and BCL-xL. Although the thrombocytopenia that occurs with navitoclax treatment has not been a problem with ABT-199, clinical trials in CLL could benefit by lowering the ABT-199 concentration through targeting other survival pathways. In this study, we investigated the mechanisms of resistance that develops to ABT-199 therapy by generating ABT-199-resistant (ABT199-R) cell lines via chronic exposure of NHL cell lines to ABT-199. Acquired resistance resulted in substantial AKT activation and upregulation of MCL-1 and BCL-xL levels that sequestered BIM. ABT199-R cells exhibited increased MCL-1 stability and failed to activate BAX in response to ABT-199. The ABT-199 acquired and inherent resistant cells were sensitized to treatment with ABT-199 by inhibitors of the PI3K, AKT, and mTOR pathways, NVP-BEZ235 and GS-1101. NVP-BEZ235, a dual inhibitor of p-AKT and mTOR, reduced MCL-1 levels causing BIM release from MCL-1 and BCL-xL, thus leading to cell death by BAX activation. The PI3Kδ inhibitor GS-1101 (idelalisib) downregulated MCL-1 and sensitized ABT199-R cells through AKT-mediated BAX activation. A genetic approach, through siRNA-mediated down-regulation of AKT, MCL-1, and BCL-xL, significantly decreased cell survival, demonstrating the importance of these cell survival factors for ABT-199 resistance. Our findings suggest a novel mechanism that modulates the expression and activity of pro-survival proteins to confer treatment resistance that could be exploited by a rational combination therapeutic regimen that could be effective for treating lymphoid malignancies. 	Apoptosis can be measured by number of methods by taking advantage of the morphological, biochemical, and molecular changes undergoing in a cell during this process. The best recognized biochemical hallmark of both early and late stages of apoptosis is the activation of cysteine proteases (caspases). Detection of active caspase-3 in cells and tissues is an important method for apoptosis induced by a wide variety of apoptotic signals. Most common assays for examining caspase-3 activation include immunostaining, immunoblotting for active caspase-3, colorimetric assays using fluorochrome substrates, as well as employing the fluorescein-labeled CaspaTag pan-caspase in situ detection kit.	MTOR complex-1(mTORC1) activation occurs frequently in cancers, yet clinical efficacy of rapalogs is limited because of the associated activation of upstream survival pathways. An alternative approach is to inhibit downstream of mTORC1; therefore, acquired resistance to fludarabine (Flu), a purine analogue and antimetabolite chemotherapy, active agent for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) was investigated. Elevated phospho-p70S6K, also known as RPS6KB1 (ribosomal protein S6 kinase, 70kDa, polypeptide 1) (T389), an mTORC1 activation marker, predicted Flu resistance in a panel of B-cell lines, isogenic Flu-resistant (FluR) derivatives, and primary human CLL cells. Consistent with the anabolic role of mTORC1, FluR cells had higher rates of glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation than Flu-sensitive (FluS) cells. Rapalogs (everolimus and rapamycin) induced moderate cell death in FluR and primary CLL cells, and everolimus significantly inhibited glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation in FluR cells. Strikingly, the higher oxidative phosphorylation in FluR cells was not coupled to higher ATP synthesis. Instead, it contributed primarily to an essential, dihydroorotate dehydrogenase catalyzed, step in de novo pyrimidine biosynthesis. mTORC1 promotes pyrimidine biosynthesis by p70S6 kinase-mediated phosphorylation of CAD (carbamoyl-phosphate synthetase 2, aspartate transcarbamylase, and dihydroorotase; Ser1859) and favors S-phase cell-cycle progression. We found increased phospho-CAD (S1859) and higher S-phase population in FluR cells. Pharmacological inhibition of de novo pyrimidine biosynthesis using N-phosphonacetyl-l-aspartate and leflunomide, RNAi-mediated knockdown of p70S6K, and inhibition of mitochondrial respiration were selectively cytotoxic to FluR, but not FluS, cells. These results reveal a novel link between mTORC1-mediated metabolic reprogramming and Flu resistance identifying mitochondrial respiration and de novo pyrimidine biosynthesis as potential therapeutic targets. This study provides the first evidence for mTORC1/p70S6K-dependent regulation of pyrimidine biosynthesis in a relevant disease setting.	Macroautophagy is a catabolic process that can mediate cell death or survival. Apo2 ligand (Apo2L)/tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) treatment (TR) is known to induce autophagy. Here we investigated whether SQSTM1/p62 (p62) overexpression, as a marker of autophagic flux, was related to aggressiveness of human prostate cancer (PCa) and whether autophagy regulated the treatment response in sensitive but not resistant PCa cell lines. Immunostaining and immunoblotting analyses of the autophagic markers p62 [in PCa tissue microarrays (TMAs) and PCa cell lines] and LC3 (in PCa cell lines), transmission electron microscopy, and GFP-mCherry-LC3 were used to study autophagy induction and flux. The effect of autophagy inhibition using pharmacologic (3-methyladenine and chloroquine) and genetic [(short hairpin (sh)-mediated knock-down of ATG7 and LAMP2) and small interfering (si)RNA-mediated BECN1 knock-down] approaches on TR-induced cell death was assessed by clonogenic survival, sub-G1 DNA content, and annexinV/PI staining by flow cytometry. Caspase-8 activation was determined by immunoblotting. We found that increased cytoplasmic expression of p62 was associated with high-grade PCa, indicating that autophagy signaling might be important for survival in high-grade tumors. TR-resistant cells exhibited high autophagic flux, with more efficient clearance of p62-aggregates in four TR-resistant PCa cell lines: C4-2, LNCaP, DU145, and CWRv22.1. In contrast, autophagic flux was low in TR-sensitive PC3 cells, leading to accumulation of p62-aggregates. Pharmacologic (chloroquine or 3-methyladenine) and genetic (shATG7 or shLAMP2) inhibition of autophagy led to cell death in TR-resistant C4-2 cells. shATG7-expressing PC3 cells, were less sensitive to TR-induced cell death whereas those shLAMP2-expressing were as sensitive as shControl-expressing PC3 cells. Inhibition of autophagic flux using chloroquine prevented clearance of p62 aggregates, leading to caspase-8 activation and cell death in C4-2 cells. In PC3 cells, inhibition of autophagy induction prevented p62 accumulation and hence caspase-8 activation. We show that p62 overexpression correlates with advanced stage human PCa. Pharmacologic and genetic inhibition of autophagy in PCa cell lines indicate that autophagic flux can determine the cellular response to TR by regulating caspase-8 activation. Thus, combining various autophagic inhibitors may have a differential impact on TR-induced cell death.
Anand-Apte, Bela	Ophthalmic Research	30129971	29874129	25558000	25447564	23831329	23469166	22183345	22183341	21282576	20976146	Sorsby fundus dystrophy (SFD), an autosomal dominant, fully penetrant, degenerative disease of the macula, is manifested by symptoms of night blindness or sudden loss of visual acuity, usually in the third to fourth decades of life due to choroidal neovascularization (CNV). SFD is caused by specific mutations in the Tissue Inhibitor of Metalloproteinase-3, (TIMP3) gene. The predominant histo-pathological feature in the eyes of patients with SFD are confluent 20-30 m thick, amorphous deposits found between the basement membrane of the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) and the inner collagenous layer of Bruch's membrane. SFD is a rare disease but it has generated significant interest because it closely resembles the exudative or &quot;wet&quot; form of the more common age-related macular degeneration (AMD). In addition, in both SFD and AMD donor eyes, sub-retinal deposits have been shown to accumulate TIMP3 protein. Understanding the molecular functions of wild-type and mutant TIMP3 will provide significant insights into the patho-physiology of SFD and perhaps AMD. This review summarizes the current knowledge on TIMP3 and how mutations in TIMP3 cause SFD to provide insights into how we can study this disease going forward. Findings from these studies could have potential therapeutic implications for both SFD and AMD.	The predominant function of the blood-retinal barrier (BRB) is to maintain retinal homeostasis by regulating the influx and efflux between the blood and retina. Breakdown of the BRB occurs in a number of ocular diseases that result in vision loss. Understanding the molecular and cellular pathways involved in the development and maintenance of the BRB is critical to developing therapeutics for these conditions. To visualize the BRB in vivo, we used the transgenic Tg(l-fabp:DBP-EGFP:flk1:mCherry) zebrafish model that expresses vitamin D binding protein (a member of the albumin gene family) tagged to green fluorescent protein. Retinoic acid (RA) plays a number of important roles in vertebrate development and has been shown to play a protective role during inflammation-induced blood-brain barrier disruption. The role of RA in BRB development and maintenance remains unknown. To disrupt RA signaling, Tg(l-fabp:DBP-EGFP:flk1:mCherry) zebrafish were treated with N, N-diethylaminobenzaldehyde and 4-[(1 E)-2-[5,6-dihydro-5,5-dimethyl-8-(2-phenylethynyl)-2-naphthalenyl]ethenyl]benzoic acid, which are antagonists of retinal dehydrogenase and the RA receptor, respectively. Treatment with either compound resulted in BRB disruption and reduced visual acuity, whereas cotreatment with all- trans RA effectively rescued BRB integrity. Additionally, transgenic overexpression of Cyp26a1, which catalyzes RA degradation, resulted in breakdown of the BRB. Our results demonstrate that RA signaling is critical for maintenance of the BRB and could play a role in diseases such as diabetic macular edema.-Pollock, L. M., Xie, J., Bell, B. A., Anand-Apte, B. Retinoic acid signaling is essential for maintenance of the blood-retinal barrier.	Tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-3 (TIMP3) is a tumor suppressor and a potent inhibitor of angiogenesis. TIMP3 exerts its anti-angiogenic effect via a direct interaction with vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) receptor-2 (KDR) and inhibition of proliferation, migration and tube formation of endothelial cells (ECs). TIMP3 has also been shown to induce apoptosis in some cancer cells and vascular smooth muscle cells via MMP inhibition and caspase-dependent mechanisms. In this study, we examined the molecular mechanisms of TIMP3-mediated apoptosis in endothelial cells. We have previously demonstrated that mice developed smaller tumors with decreased vascularity when injected with breast carcinoma cells overexpressing TIMP3, than with control breast carcinoma cells. TIMP3 overexpression resulted in increased apoptosis in human breast carcinoma (MDA-MB435) in vivo but not in vitro. However, TIMP3 could induce apoptosis in ECs in vitro. The apoptotic activity of TIMP3 in ECs appears to be independent of MMP inhibitory activity. Furthermore, the equivalent expression of functional TIMP3 promoted apoptosis and caspase activation in ECs expressing KDR (PAE/KDR), but not in ECs expressing PDGF beta-receptor (PAE/β-R). Surprisingly, the apoptotic activity of TIMP3 appears to be independent of caspases. TIMP3 inhibited matrix-induced focal adhesion kinase (FAK) tyrosine phosphorylation and association with paxillin and disrupted the incorporation of β3 integrin, FAK and paxillin into focal adhesion contacts on the matrix, which were not affected by caspase inhibitors. Thus, TIMP3 may induce apoptosis in ECs by triggering a caspase-independent cell death pathway and targeting a FAK-dependent survival pathway. 	Over the past 3 decades the zebrafish (Danio rerio) has become an important biomedical research species. As their use continues to grow additional techniques and tools will be required to keep pace with ongoing research using this species. In this paper we describe a novel method for in vivo imaging of the retinal vasculature in adult animals using a commercially available confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscope (SLO). With this instrumentation, we demonstrate the ability to distinguish diverse vascular phenotypes in different transgenic GFP lines. In addition this technology allows repeated visualization of the vasculature in individual zebrafish over time to document vascular leakage progression and recovery induced by intraocular delivery of proteins that induce vascular permeability. SLO of the retinal vasculature was found to be highly informative, providing images of high contrast and resolution that were capable of resolving individual vascular endothelial cells. Finally, the procedures required to acquire SLO images from zebrafish are non-invasive, simple to perform and can be achieved with low animal mortality, allowing repeated imaging of individual fish.	Diabetes mellitus is a disease with considerable morbidity and mortality worldwide. Breakdown of the blood-retinal barrier and leakage from the retinal vasculature leads to diabetic macular edema, an important cause of vision loss in patients with diabetes. Although epidemiologic studies and randomized clinical trials suggest that glycemic control plays a major role in the development of vascular complications of diabetes, insulin therapies for control of glucose metabolism cannot prevent long-term retinal complications. The phenomenon of temporary paradoxical worsening of diabetic macular edema after insulin treatment has been observed in a number of studies. In prospective studies on non-insulin-dependent (type 2) diabetes mellitus patients, a change in treatment from oral drugs to insulin was often associated with a significant increased risk of retinopathy progression and visual impairment. Although insulin therapies are critical for regulation of the metabolic disease, their role in the retina is controversial. In this study with diabetic mice, insulin treatment resulted in increased vascular leakage apparently mediated by betacellulin and signaling via the epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor. In addition, treatment with EGF receptor inhibitors reduced retinal vascular leakage in diabetic mice on insulin. These findings provide unique insight into the role of insulin signaling in mediating retinal effects in diabetes and open new avenues for therapeutics to treat the retinal complications of diabetes mellitus. 	Tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases (TIMPs) while originally characterized as inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) have recently been shown to have a wide range of functions that are independent of their MMP inhibitory properties. Tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-3 (TIMP-3) is a potent inhibitor of VEGF-mediated angiogenesis and neovascularization through its ability to block the binding of VEGF to its receptor VEGFR-2. To identify and characterize the anti-angiogenic domain of TIMP-3, structure function analyses and synthetic peptide studies were performed using VEGF-mediated receptor binding, signaling, migration and proliferation. In addition, the ability of TIMP-3 peptides to inhibit CNV in a mouse model was evaluated. We demonstrate that the anti-angiogenic property resides in the COOH-terminal domain of TIMP-3 protein which can block the binding of VEGF specifically to its receptor VEGFR-2, but not to VEGFR-1 similar to the full-length wild-type protein. Synthetic peptides corresponding to putative loop 6 and tail region of TIMP-3 have anti-angiogenic properties as determined by inhibition of VEGF binding to VEGFR-2, VEGF-induced phosphorylation of VEGFR-2 and downstream signaling pathways as well as endothelial cell proliferation and migration in response to VEGF. In addition, we show that intravitreal administration of TIMP-3 peptide could inhibit the size of laser-induced choroidal neovascularization lesions in mice. Thus, we have identified TIMP-3 peptides to be efficient inhibitors of angiogenesis and have a potential to be used therapeutically in diseases with increased neovascularization.	NA	NA	Tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-3 (TIMP-3) is a matrix-bound inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). The authors have previously determined a novel function of TIMP-3 to inhibit vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-mediated angiogenesis. Here, the authors examined the in vivo angiogenic phenotype of ocular vessels in mice deficient in TIMP-3. VEGF-mediated corneal neovascularization and laser-induced choroidal neovascularization (CNV) were examined in TIMP-3-null mice. The effects of the absence of TIMP-3 on the phosphorylation status of the VEGF-receptor-2 (VEGFR-2) and the downstream signaling pathways were evaluated biochemically. In addition, the activation state of MMPs in the retina of TIMP-3-deficient mice was examined by in situ zymography. The results of these studies determine an accentuation of pathologic VEGF-mediated angiogenesis in the cornea and laser-induced CNV in mice lacking TIMP-3. In the absence of the MMP inhibitor, pathophysiological changes were observed in the choroidal vasculature concomitantly with an increase in gelatinolytic activity. These results suggest that an imbalance of extracellular matrix homeostasis, together with a loss of an angiogenesis inhibitor, can prime vascular beds to be more responsive to an angiogenic stimulus. In light of the recent studies suggesting that genetic variants near TIMP-3 influence susceptibility to age-related macular degeneration, these results imply that TIMP-3 may regulate the development of the choroidal vasculature and is a likely contributor to increased susceptibility to choroidal neovascularization.	Diabetic maculopathy, the leading cause of vision loss in patients with type 2 diabetes, is characterized by hyper-permeability of retinal blood vessels with subsequent formation of macular edema and hard exudates. The degree of hyperglycemia and duration of diabetes have been suggested to be good predictors of retinal complications. Intervention studies have determined that while intensive treatment of diabetes reduced the development of proliferative diabetic retinopathy it was associated with a two to three-fold increased risk of severe hypoglycemia. Thus we hypothesized the need to identify downstream glycemic targets, which induce retinal vascular permeability that could be targeted therapeutically without the additional risks associated with intensive treatment of the hyperglycemia. Betacellulin is a 32 kD member of the epidermal growth factor family with mitogenic properties for the retinal pigment epithelial cells. This led us to hypothesize a role for betacellulin in the retinal vascular complications associated with diabetes. In this study, using a mouse model of diabetes, we demonstrate that diabetic mice have accentuated retinal vascular permeability with a concomitant increased expression of a cleaved soluble form of betacellulin (s-Btc) in the retina. Intravitreal injection of soluble betacellulin induced retinal vascular permeability in normoglycemic and hyperglycemic mice. Western blot analysis of retinas from patients with diabetic retinopathy showed an increase in the active soluble form of betacellulin. In addition, an increase in the levels of A disintegrin and metalloproteinase (ADAM)-10 which plays a role in the cleavage of betacellulin was seen in the retinas of diabetic mice and humans. These results suggest that excessive amounts of betacellulin in the retina may contribute to the pathogenesis of diabetic macular edema.
Apte, Suneel	Biomedical Engineering	30814516	30738849	30201140	29885460	29642006	29515038	28323982	28176809	27687499	26657033	Although hundreds of cytosolic or transmembrane molecules form the primary cilium, few secreted molecules are known to contribute to ciliogenesis. Here, homologous secreted metalloproteases ADAMTS9 and ADAMTS20 are identified as ciliogenesis regulators that act intracellularly. Secreted and furin-processed ADAMTS9 bound heparan sulfate and was internalized by LRP1, LRP2 and clathrin-mediated endocytosis to be gathered in Rab11 vesicles with a unique periciliary localization defined by super-resolution microscopy. CRISPR-Cas9 inactivation of ADAMTS9 impaired ciliogenesis in RPE-1 cells, which was restored by catalytically active ADAMTS9 or ADAMTS20 acting in trans, but not by their proteolytically inactive mutants. Their mutagenesis in mice impaired neural and yolk sac ciliogenesis, leading to morphogenetic anomalies resulting from impaired hedgehog signaling, which is transduced by primary cilia. In addition to their cognate extracellular proteolytic activity, ADAMTS9 and ADAMTS20 thus have an additional proteolytic role intracellularly, revealing an unexpected regulatory dimension in ciliogenesis.	Geleophysic dysplasia is a rare, frequently lethal condition characterized by severe short stature with progressive joint contractures, cardiac, pulmonary, and skin anomalies. Geleophysic dysplasia results from dominant fibrillin-1 (FBN1) or recessive ADAMTSL2 mutations, suggesting a functional link between ADAMTSL2 and fibrillin microfibrils. Mice lacking ADAMTSL2 die at birth, which has precluded analysis of postnatal limb development and mechanisms underlying the skeletal anomalies of geleophysic dysplasia. Here, detailed expression analysis of Adamtsl2 using an intragenic lacZ reporter shows strong Adamtsl2 expression in limb tendons. Expression in developing and growing bones is present in regions that are destined to become articular cartilage but is absent in growth plate cartilage. Consistent with strong tendon expression, Adamtsl2 conditional deletion in limb mesenchyme using Prx1-Cre led to tendon anomalies, albeit with normal collagen fibrils, and distal limb shortening, providing a mouse model for geleophysic dysplasia. Unexpectedly, conditional Adamtsl2 deletion using Scx-Cre, a tendon-specific Cre-deleter strain, which does not delete in cartilage, also impaired skeletal growth. Recombinant ADAMTSL2 is shown here to colocalize with fibrillin microfibrils in vitro, and enhanced staining of fibrillin-1 microfibrils was observed in Prx1-Cre Adamtsl2 tendons. The findings show that ADAMTSL2 specifically regulates microfibril assembly in tendons and that proper microfibril composition in tendons is necessary for tendon growth. We speculate that reduced bone growth in geleophysic dysplasia may result from external tethering by short tendons rather than intrinsic growth plate anomalies. Taken together with previous work, we suggest that GD results from abnormal microfibril assembly in tissues, and that ADAMTSL2 may limit the assembly of fibrillin microfibrils.	Mutations in the secreted metalloproteinase ADAMTS10 cause recessive Weill-Marchesani syndrome (WMS), comprising ectopia lentis, short stature, brachydactyly, thick skin and cardiac valve anomalies. Dominant WMS caused by FBN1 mutations is clinically similar and affects fibrillin-1 microfibrils, which are a major component of the ocular zonule. ADAMTS10 was previously shown to enhance fibrillin-1 assembly in vitro. Here, Adamts10 null mice were analyzed to determine the impact of ADAMTS10 deficiency on fibrillin microfibrils in vivo. An intragenic lacZ reporter identified widespread Adamts10 expression in the eye, musculoskeletal tissues, vasculature, skin and lung. Adamts10<sup>-/-</sup> mice had reduced viability on the C57BL/6 background, and although surviving mice were slightly smaller and had stiff skin, they lacked brachydactyly and cardiovascular defects. Ectopia lentis was not observed in Adamts10<sup>-/-</sup> mice, similar to Fbn1<sup>-/-</sup> mice, most likely because the mouse zonule contains fibrillin-2 in addition to fibrillin-1. Unexpectedly, in contrast to wild-type eyes, Adamts10<sup>-/-</sup> zonule fibers were thicker and immunostained strongly with fibrillin-2 antibodies into adulthood, whereas fibrillin-1 staining was reduced. Furthermore, fibrillin-2 staining of hyaloid vasculature remnants persisted post-natally in Adamts10<sup>-/-</sup> eyes. ADAMTS10 was found to cleave fibrillin-2, providing an explanation for persistence of fibrillin-2 at these sites. Thus, analysis of Adamts10<sup>-/-</sup> mice led to identification of fibrillin-2 as a novel ADAMTS10 substrate and defined a proteolytic mechanism for clearance of ocular fibrillin-2 at the end of the juvenile period.	ADAMTS proteins are a superfamily of 26 secreted molecules comprising two related, but distinct families. ADAMTS proteases are zinc metalloendopeptidases, most of whose substrates are extracellular matrix (ECM) components, whereas ADAMTS-like proteins lack a metalloprotease domain, reside in the ECM and have regulatory roles vis-à-vis ECM assembly and/or ADAMTS activity. Evolutionary conservation and expansion of ADAMTS proteins in mammals is suggestive of crucial embryologic or physiological roles in humans. Indeed, Mendelian disorders or birth defects resulting from naturally occurring ADAMTS2, ADAMTS3, ADAMTS10, ADAMTS13, ADAMTS17, ADAMTS20, ADAMTSL2 and ADAMTSL4 mutations as well as numerous phenotypes identified in genetically engineered mice have revealed ADAMTS participation in major biological pathways. Important roles have been identified in a few acquired conditions. ADAMTS5 is unequivocally implicated in pathogenesis of osteoarthritis via degradation of aggrecan, a major structural proteoglycan in cartilage. ADAMTS7 is strongly associated with coronary artery disease and promotes atherosclerosis. Autoantibodies to ADAMTS13 lead to a platelet coagulopathy, thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, which is similar to that resulting from ADAMTS13 mutations. ADAMTS proteins have numerous potential connections to other human disorders that were identified by genome-wide association studies. Here, we review inherited and acquired human disorders in which ADAMTS proteins participate, and discuss progress and prospects in therapeutics.	Focal adhesions anchor cells to extracellular matrix (ECM) and direct assembly of a pre-stressed actin cytoskeleton. They act as a cellular sensor and regulator, linking ECM to the nucleus. Here, we identify proteolytic turnover of the anti-adhesive proteoglycan versican as a requirement for maintenance of smooth muscle cell (SMC) focal adhesions. Using conditional deletion in mice, we show that ADAMTS9, a secreted metalloprotease, is required for myometrial activation during late gestation and for parturition. Through knockdown of ADAMTS9 in uterine SMC, and manipulation of pericellular versican via knockdown or proteolysis, we demonstrate that regulated pericellular matrix dynamics is essential for focal adhesion maintenance. By influencing focal adhesion formation, pericellular versican acts upstream of cytoskeletal assembly and SMC differentiation. Thus, pericellular versican proteolysis by ADAMTS9 balances pro- and anti-adhesive forces to maintain an SMC phenotype, providing a concrete example of the dynamic reciprocity of cells and their ECM.	Proteoglycan accumulation is a hallmark of medial degeneration in thoracic aortic aneurysm and dissection (TAAD). Here, we defined the aortic proteoglycanome using mass spectrometry, and based on the findings, investigated the large aggregating proteoglycans aggrecan and versican in human ascending TAAD and a mouse model of severe Marfan syndrome. The aortic proteoglycanome comprises 20 proteoglycans including aggrecan and versican. Antibodies against these proteoglycans intensely stained medial degeneration lesions in TAAD, contrasting with modest intralamellar staining in controls. Aggrecan, but not versican, was increased in longitudinal analysis of Fbn1mgR/mgR aortas. TAAD and Fbn1mgR/mgR aortas had increased aggrecan and versican mRNAs, and reduced expression of a key proteoglycanase gene, ADAMTS5, was seen in TAAD. Fbn1mgR/mgR mice with ascending aortic dissection and/or rupture had dramatically increased aggrecan staining compared with mice without these complications. Thus, aggrecan and versican accumulation in ascending TAAD occurs via increased synthesis and/or reduced proteolytic turnover, and correlates with aortic dissection/rupture in Fbn1mgR/mgR mice. Tissue swelling imposed by aggrecan and versican is proposed to be profoundly deleterious to aortic wall mechanics and smooth muscle cell homeostasis, predisposing to type-A dissections. These proteoglycans provide potential biomarkers for refined risk stratification and timing of elective aortic aneurysm repair.	Leiomyomas have abundant extracellular matrix (ECM), with upregulation of versican, a large proteoglycan. We investigated ADAMTS (a disintegrin-like and metalloprotease with thrombospondin type 1 motifs) protease-mediated versican cleavage in myometrium and leiomyoma and the effect of versican knockdown in leiomyoma cells. We used quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), western blotting, immunohistochemistry, and RNA in situ hybridization for analysis of myometrium, leiomyoma and immortalized myometrium and leiomyoma cells. Short interfering RNA (siRNA) was used to knockdown versican in leiomyoma cells. This study was performed in an academic laboratory. Study subjects were women with symptomatic or asymptomatic leiomyoma. We quantified messenger RNAs (mRNAs) for versican splice variants. We identified ADAMTS-cleaved versican in myometrium and leiomyoma and ADAMTS messenger RNAs and examined the effect of VCAN siRNA on smooth muscle differentiation and expression of estrogen and progesterone receptors. The women in the symptomatic group (n = 7) had larger leiomyoma (P = 0.01), heavy menstrual bleeding (P &lt; 0.01), and lower hemoglobin levels (P = 0.02) compared with the asymptomatic group (n = 7), but were similar in age and menopausal status. Versican V0 and V1 isoforms were upregulated in the leiomyomas of symptomatic versus asymptomatic women (P = 0.03 and P = 0.04, respectively). Abundant cleaved versican was detected in leiomyoma and myometrium, as well as in myometrial and leiomyoma cell lines. ADAMTS4 (P = 0.03) and ADAMTS15 (P = 0.04) were upregulated in symptomatic leiomyomas. VCAN siRNA did not effect cell proliferation, apoptosis, or smooth muscle markers, but reduced ESR1 and PR-A expression (P = 0.001 and P = 0.002, respectively). Versican in myometrium, leiomyomas and in the corresponding immortalized cells is cleaved by ADAMTS proteases. VCAN siRNA suppresses production of estrogen receptor 1 and progesterone receptor-A. These findings have implications for leiomyoma growth.	Secreted metalloproteases have diverse roles in the formation, remodeling, and the destruction of extracellular matrix. Recessive mutations in the secreted metalloprotease ADAMTS17 cause ectopia lentis and short stature in humans with Weill-Marchesani-like syndrome and primary open angle glaucoma and ectopia lentis in dogs. Little is known about this protease or its connection to fibrillin microfibrils, whose major component, fibrillin-1, is genetically associated with ectopia lentis and alterations in height. Fibrillin microfibrils form the ocular zonule and are present in the drainage apparatus of the eye. We show that recombinant ADAMTS17 has unique characteristics and an unusual life cycle. It undergoes rapid autocatalytic processing in trans after its secretion from cells. Secretion of ADAMTS17 requires O-fucosylation and its autocatalytic activity does not depend on propeptide processing by furin. ADAMTS17 binds recombinant fibrillin-2 but not fibrillin-1 and does not cleave either. It colocalizes to fibrillin-1 containing microfibrils in cultured fibroblasts and suppresses fibrillin-2 (FBN2) incorporation in microfibrils, in part by transcriptional downregulation of Fbn2 mRNA expression. RNA in situ hybridization detected Adamts17 expression in specific structures in the eye, skeleton and other organs, where it may regulate the fibrillin isoform composition of microfibrils.	Peters Plus syndrome (PPS), a congenital disorder of glycosylation, results from recessive mutations affecting the glucosyltransferase B3GLCT, leading to congenital corneal opacity and diverse extra-ocular manifestations. Together with the fucosyltransferase POFUT2, B3GLCT adds Glucoseβ1-3Fucose disaccharide to a consensus sequence in thrombospondin type 1 repeats (TSRs) of several proteins. Which of these target proteins is functionally compromised in PPS is unknown. We report here that haploinsufficiency of murine Adamts9, encoding a secreted metalloproteinase with 15 TSRs, leads to congenital corneal opacity and Peters anomaly (persistent lens-cornea adhesion), which is a hallmark of PPS. Mass spectrometry of recombinant ADAMTS9 showed that 9 of 12 TSRs with the O-fucosylation consensus sequence carried the Glucoseβ1-3Fucose disaccharide and B3GLCT knockdown reduced ADAMTS9 secretion in HEK293F cells. Together, the genetic and biochemical findings imply a dosage-dependent role for ADAMTS9 in ocular morphogenesis. Reduced secretion of ADAMTS9 in the absence of B3GLCT is proposed as a mechanism of Peters anomaly in PPS. The functional link between ADAMTS9 and B3GLCT established here also provides credence to their recently reported association with age-related macular degeneration.	The extracellular matrix of articular cartilage is structurally specialized for efficient absorption of mechanical impact. In particular, giant aggregates of the large chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan, aggrecan, with the glycosaminoglycan, hyaluronan, allow cartilage to resist compressive load. Proteolysis of aggrecan by members of the proteinase family ADAMTS (A disintegrin-like and metalloproteinase domain with thrombospondin type 1 motif), was identified as an early step in the inexorable destruction of cartilage in osteoarthritis (OA). Of the investigated proteinases, ADAMTS5 has emerged as a principal mediator of aggrecan loss in OA, convincingly so in mouse models, and with high probability in humans. ADAMTS5 has a bipartite organization, comprising a proteinase domain and an ancillary domain containing exosites for interaction with aggrecan and other substrates. In a recent issue of this journal, Santamaria et al. characterized anti-ADAMTS5 monoclonal antibodies isolated from a phage display library. By blocking the catalytic site of the ADAMTS5 immunogen with a synthetic inhibitor, the authors of the paper biased selection of antibodies to the ancillary domain. This work, together with other antibodies targeting ADAMTS5, offers diverse, high-affinity and, as far as can be determined, selective aggrecanase inhibitors. Mapping of their epitopes provided novel insights into ADAMTS5 interactions with aggrecan. These monoclonal antibodies deserve continued investigation for potential arthritis therapy, although their successful use will require a comprehensive understanding of the physiological roles of ADAMTS5, and its regulation, intrinsic properties and intermolecular interactions. 
Aronica, Mark	Inflammation and Immunity	30691715	29966020	26448757	26209637	25988016	23118230	22917573	21251977	20477600	15577850	There are multiple proinflammatory pathways in the pathogenesis of asthma. These include both innate and adaptive inflammation, in addition to inflammatory and physiologic responses mediated by eicosanoids. An important component of the innate allergic immune response is ILC2 activated by interleukin (IL)-33, thymic stromal lymphopoietin, and IL-25 to produce IL-5 and IL-13. In terms of the adaptive T-lymphocyte immunity, CD4+ Th2 and IL-17-producing cells are critical in the inflammatory responses in asthma. Last, eicosanoids involved in asthma pathogenesis include prostaglandin D2 and the cysteinyl leukotrienes that promote smooth muscle constriction and inflammation that propagate allergic responses.	Asthma is a chronic inflammatory disease that is known to cause changes in the extracellular matrix, including changes in hyaluronan (HA) deposition. However, little is known about the factors that modulate its deposition or the potential consequences. Asthmatics with high levels of exhaled nitric oxide (NO) are characterized by greater airway reactivity and greater evidence of airway inflammation. Based on these data and our previous work we hypothesized that excessive NO promotes the pathologic production of HA by airway smooth muscle cells (SMCs). Exposure of cultured SMCs to various NO donors results in the accumulation of HA in the form of unique, cable-like structures. HA accumulates rapidly after exposure to NO and can be seen as early as one hour after NO treatment. The cable-like HA in NO-treated SMC cultures supports the binding of leukocytes. In addition, NO produced by murine macrophages (RAW cells) and airway epithelial cells also induces SMCs to produce HA cables when grown in co-culture. The modulation of HA by NO appears to be independent of soluble guanylate cyclase. Taken together, NO-induced production of leukocyte-binding HA by SMCs provides a new potential mechanism for the non-resolving airway inflammation in asthma and suggests a key role of non-immune cells in driving the chronic inflammation of the submucosa. Modulation of NO, HA and the consequent immune cell interactions may serve as potential therapeutic targets in asthma.	In normal airways, hyaluronan (HA) matrices are primarily located within the airway submucosa, pulmonary vasculature walls, and, to a lesser extent, the alveoli. Following pulmonary injury, elevated levels of HA matrices accumulate in these regions, and in respiratory secretions, correlating with the extent of injury. Animal models have provided important insight into the role of HA in the onset of pulmonary injury and repair, generally indicating that the induction of HA synthesis is an early event typically preceding fibrosis. The HA that accumulates in inflamed airways is of a high molecular weight (&gt;1600 kDa) but can be broken down into smaller fragments (&lt;150 kDa) by inflammatory and disease-related mechanisms that have profound effects on HA pathobiology. During inflammation in the airways, HA is often covalently modified with heavy chains from inter-alpha-inhibitor via the enzyme tumor-necrosis-factor-stimulated-gene-6 (TSG-6) and this modification promotes the interaction of leukocytes with HA matrices at sites of inflammation. The clearance of HA and its return to normal levels is essential for the proper resolution of inflammation. These data portray HA matrices as an important component of normal airway physiology and illustrate its integral roles during tissue injury and repair among a variety of respiratory diseases. 	Hyaluronan (HA) is a large (&gt;1500 kDa) polysaccharide of the extracellular matrix that has been linked to severity and inflammation in asthma. During inflammation, HA becomes covalently modified with heavy chains (HC-HA) from inter-α-inhibitor (IαI), which functions to increase its avidity for leukocytes. Our murine model of allergic pulmonary inflammation suggested that HC-HA may contribute to inflammation, adversely effecting lower airway remodeling and asthma severity. Our objective was to characterize the levels of HA and HC-HA in asthmatic subjects and to correlate these levels with asthma severity. We determined the levels and distribution of HA and HC-HA (i) from asthmatic and control lung tissue, (ii) in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid obtained from non-severe and severe asthmatics and controls, and (iii) in serum and urine from atopic asthmatics after an experimental asthma exacerbation. HC-HA distribution was observed (i) in the thickened basement membrane of asthmatic lower airways, (ii) around smooth muscle cells of the asthmatic submucosa, and (iii) around reserve cells of the asthmatic epithelium. Patients with severe asthma had increased HA levels in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid that correlated with pulmonary function and nitric oxide levels, whereas HC-HA was only observed in a patient with non-severe asthma. After an experimental asthma exacerbation, serum HA was increased within 4 h after challenge and remained elevated through 5 days after challenge. Urine HA and HC-HA were not significantly different. These data implicate HA and HC-HA in the pathogenesis of asthma severity that may occur in part due to repetitive asthma exacerbations over the course of the disease. 	A 64-year-old female patient presented with a 16-year history of persistent dry cough that was undiagnosed after workups at several healthcare facilities. The patient denies wheezing, shortness of breath or sputum production. Previous workups include chest imaging, transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE), laryngoscopy, spirometry and bronchoscopy, all of which were unremarkable. During her current evaluation, spirometry was ordered again for the patient, which showed a post-bronchodilator improvement in the FEV1 by 13%, strongly suggestive of asthma. The patient was started on pharmacological therapy for severe persistent asthma, which led to sustained symptomatic improvement per evaluation at follow-up after 2 months. Spirometric findings, clinical presentation and resolution of symptoms with adequate therapy for asthma suggest that this is a case of cough variant asthma that went undiagnosed for several years. This case report summarizes the workup for chronic cough and how the diagnosis of cough variant asthma can be missed. 	Hyaluronan (HA) deposition is often correlated with mucosal inflammatory responses, where HA mediates both protective and pathological responses. By modifying the HA matrix, Tnfip6 (TNF-α-induced protein-6; also known as TSG-6 (TNF-stimulated gene-6)) is thought to potentiate anti-inflammatory and anti-plasmin effects that are inhibitory to leukocyte extravasation. In this study, we examined the role of endogenous TSG-6 in the pathophysiological responses associated with acute allergic pulmonary inflammation. Compared with wild-type littermate controls, TSG-6(-/-) mice exhibited attenuated inflammation marked by a significant decrease in pulmonary HA concentrations measured in the bronchoalveolar lavage and lung tissue. Interestingly, despite the equivalent induction of both humoral and cellular Th2 immunity and the comparable levels of cytokines and chemokines typically associated with eosinophilic pulmonary inflammation, airway eosinophilia was significantly decreased in TSG-6(-/-) mice. Most importantly, contrary to their counterpart wild-type littermates, TSG-6(-/-) mice were resistant to the induction of airway hyperresponsiveness and manifested improved lung mechanics in response to methacholine challenge. Our study demonstrates that endogenous TSG-6 is dispensable for the induction of Th2 immunity but is essential for the robust increase in pulmonary HA deposition, propagation of acute eosinophilic pulmonary inflammation, and development of airway hyperresponsiveness. Thus, TSG-6 is implicated in the experimental murine model of allergic pulmonary inflammation and is likely to contribute to the pathogenesis of asthma.	Asthma is a chronic inflammatory disease that exhibits airway remodeling with changes in the extracellular matrix (ECM). The role of the ECM in mediating these changes is poorly understood. Hyaluronan (HA), a major component of the ECM, has been implicated in many biological processes in diseases. This study investigates the processes involved in HA synthesis, deposition and localization during the propagation of cockroach-induced asthma. Mice were sensitized and challenged with cockroach antigen, and sacrificed at various time points during an 8-week challenge protocol. Analysis of bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid revealed an increase in total nucleated cells as early as 6h, which peaked at 6 days. Histopathologic analysis of the lung tissue revealed an influx of inflammatory cells at the peribronchial and perivascular regions starting at 12 h, which peaked at 6 days and persisted to 8 weeks. Eosinophils predominated in the early time points while lymphocytes predominated during the late time points. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) data showed that hyaluronan synthase 1 (HAS1) mRNA peaked within 6 h and then declined. HAS2 mRNA also peaked within 6 h but remained elevated throughout the 8-week exposure course. HA levels in lung tissue and BAL increased at 12 h and peaked by 6 and 8 days, respectively. Inflammatory cells and new collagen formation localized in areas of HA deposition. Taken together, these data support a role for HA in the pathogenesis in asthma.	Asthma is a chronic inflammatory disease of the airways characterized by airway remodeling, which includes changes in the extracellular matrix (ECM). However the role of the ECM in mediating these changes is poorly understood. Hyaluronan (HA), a major component of the ECM, has been implicated in asthma as well as in many other biological processes. Our study investigates the processes involved in HA synthesis, deposition, localization and degradation during an acute and chronic murine model of ovalbumin (OVA)-induced allergic pulmonary inflammation. Mice were sensitized, challenged to OVA and sacrificed at various time points during an 8-week challenge protocol. Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluids, blood, and lung tissue were collected for study. RNA, HA, protein and histopathology were analyzed. Analyses of lung sections and BAL fluids revealed an early deposition and an increase in HA levels within 24 h of antigen exposure. HA levels peaked at day 8 in BAL, while inflammatory cell recovery peaked at day 6. Hyaluronan synthase (HAS)1 and HAS2 on RNA levels peaked within 2 h of antigen exposure, while hyaluronidase (HYAL)1 and HYAL2 on RNA levels decreased. Both inflammatory cell infiltrates and collagen deposition co-localized with HA deposition within the lungs. These data support a role for HA in the pathogenesis of inflammation and airway remodeling in a murine model of asthma. HA deposition appears largely due to up regulation of HAS1 and HAS2. In addition, HA appears to provide the scaffolding for inflammatory cell accumulation as well as for new collagen synthesis and deposition.	Animal models and clinical studies of asthma have generated important insights into the first effector phase leading to the development of allergic airway disease and bronchial hyper-reactivity. In contrast, mechanisms related to asthma chronicity or persistence are less well understood. The CD4(+) T-helper 2 lymphocytes are known initiators of the inflammatory response associated with asthma. There is now increasing evidence that memory T-cells, sensitized against allergenic, occupational or viral antigens, are also involved in the persistence of asthma. Additionally, the role of pathogens in asthma has been linked to both the initial susceptibility to and flares of this disease. This review will discuss the potential links between infection and asthma, the role of the memory T-cells in asthma, and the potential mechanisms by which these factors interact to lead to the development and/or persistence of asthma.	Microbial infections are associated with the initial susceptibility to and flares of asthma. However, immunologic mechanisms whereby infections might alter the asthmatic phenotype are lacking. To test the hypothesis that memory T cells specific both for a viral antigen and an allergen could influence the pathogenesis of allergic disease in vivo . We developed a system in which 2 distinct T-cell receptors coexist on the T-cell surface, 1 specific for a virus and the other for an inhaled antigen. We show that a population of dual-receptor T cells, polarized through a virus-specific T-cell receptor to contain T(H)1 or T(H)2 cells, can be reactivated through an unrelated T-cell receptor in recall responses in vivo . Quiescent memory cells derived from a T(H)1-polarized effector population blocked the development of airway hyperreactivity in a model of allergic lung disease, in association with decreased induction of chemokines and eosinophil recruitment. Conversely, reactivation of quiescent T(H)2 cells after inhalation of antigen or virus infection was sufficient to lead to the development of airway hyperresponsiveness and allergic pulmonary inflammation in mice whose lungs were previously normal. These data provide evidence that dual-receptor memory T cells can regulate allergic disease susceptibility and suggest that they may play a role in mediating the influence of microbes on asthma pathogenesis.
Asosingh, Kewal	Inflammation and Immunity	30523671	30460535	29911993	29659138	29573550	29296972	29264954	27270458	26810221	25621158	Preparing a single cell suspension is a critical step in any solid tissue flow cytometry experiment. Tissue dissection, enzymatic digestion, and mechanical dissociation are three significant steps leading to the degradation of the extracellular matrix and the isolation of single cells, allowing the generation of high-quality flow cytometry data. Cells and the extracellular matrix contain various proteins and other structures which must be considered when designing a tissue digestion protocol to preserve the viability of cells and the presence of relevant antigens while digesting matrix components and cleaving cell-cell junctions. Evaluation of the single cell suspension is essential before proceeding with the labeling of the cells as high viability and absence of cell debris and aggregates are critical for flow cytometry. The information presented should be used as a general guide of steps to consider when preparing a single cell suspension from solid tissues for flow cytometry experiments. © 2018 International Society for Advancement of Cytometry.	Angiogenesis extends pre-existing blood vessels to improve oxygen and nutrient delivery to inflamed or otherwise hypoxic tissues. Mitochondria are integral in this process, controlling cellular metabolism to regulate the proliferation, migration, and survival of endothelial cells which comprise the inner lining of blood vessels. Mitochondrial Complex III senses hypoxic conditions and generates mitochondrial reactive oxygen species which stabilize hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF-1α) protein. HIF-1α induces the transcription of the vegfa gene, allowing the translation of vascular endothelial growth factor protein, which interacts with mature and precursor endothelial cells, mobilizing them to form new blood vessels. This cascade can be inhibited at specific points by means of gene knockdown, enzyme treatment, and introduction of naturally occurring small molecules, providing insight into the relationship between mitochondria and angiogenesis. This review focuses on current knowledge of the overall role of mitochondria in controlling angiogenesis and outlines known inhibitors that have been used to elucidate this pathway which may be useful in future research to control angiogenesis in vivo.	Protease-activated receptor 2 (PAR-2), an airway epithelial pattern recognition receptor (PRR), participates in the genesis of house dust mite-induced (HDM-induced) asthma. Here, we hypothesized that lung endothelial cells and proangiogenic hematopoietic progenitor cells (PACs) that express high levels of PAR-2 contribute to the initiation of atopic asthma. HDM extract (HDME) protease allergens were found deep in the airway mucosa and breaching the endothelial barrier. Lung endothelial cells and PACs released the Th2-promoting cytokines IL-1α and GM-CSF in response to HDME, and the endothelium had PAC-derived VEGF-C-dependent blood vessel sprouting. Blockade of the angiogenic response by inhibition of VEGF-C signaling lessened the development of inflammation and airway remodeling in the HDM model. Reconstitution of the bone marrow in WT mice with PAR-2-deficient bone marrow also reduced airway inflammation and remodeling. Adoptive transfer of PACs that had been exposed to HDME induced angiogenesis and Th2 inflammation with remodeling similar to that induced by allergen challenge. Our findings identify that lung endothelium and PACs in the airway sense allergen and elicit an angiogenic response that is central to the innate nonimmune origins of Th2 inflammation.	Airway fibrosis is a prominent feature of asthma, contributing to the detrimental consequences of the disease. Fibrosis in the airway is the result of collagen deposition in the reticular lamina layer of the subepithelial tissue. Myofibroblasts are the leading cell type involved with this collagen deposition. Established methods of collagen deposition quantification present various issues, most importantly their inability to quantify current collagen biosynthesis occurring in airway myofibroblasts. Here, a novel method to quantify myofibroblast collagen expression in asthmatic lungs is described. Single cell suspensions of lungs harvested from C57BL/6 mice in a standard house dust mite model of asthma were employed to establish a flow cytometric method and compare collagen production in asthmatic and non-asthmatic lungs. Cells found to be CD45<sup>-</sup> αSMA<sup>+</sup> , indicative of myofibroblasts, were gated, and median fluorescence intensity of the anti-collagen-I antibody labeling the cells was calculated. Lung myofibroblasts with no, medium, or high levels of collagen-I expression were distinguished. In asthmatic animals, collagen-I levels were increased in both medium and high expressers, and the number of myofibroblasts with high collagen-I content was elevated. Our findings determined that quantification of collagen-I deposition in myofibroblastic lung cells by flow cytometry is feasible in mouse models of asthma and indicative of increased collagen-I expression by asthmatic myofibroblasts. © 2018 International Society for Advancement of Cytometry.	Beta-adrenergic receptors (β-ARs) play a critical role in many diseases. Quantification of β-AR density may have clinical implications in terms of assessing disease severity and identifying patients who could potentially benefit from beta-blocker therapy. Classical methods for β-AR quantification are based on labor-intensive and time-consuming radioligand binding assays. Here, we report optimization of a flow cytometry-based method utilizing a biotinylated β-AR ligand alprenolol as a probe and use of this method to quantify relative receptor expression in healthy controls (HC). Quantum™ MESF beads were used for quantification in absolute fluorescence units. The probe was chemically modified by adding a spacer moiety between biotin and alprenolol to stabilize receptor binding, thus preventing binding decay. Testing of three different standard cell fixation and permeabilization methods (formaldehyde fixation and saponin, Tween-20, or Triton-X 100 permeabilization) showed that the formaldehyde/Triton-X 100 method yielded the best results. β-AR expression was significantly higher in granulocytes compared to mononuclear cells. These data show that flow cytometric quantification of relative β-AR expression in circulating leukocytes is a suitable technology for large-scale clinical application. © 2018 International Society for Advancement of Cytometry.	Accumulating evidence shows a causative role for the bone marrow (BM) in the genesis and progression of pulmonary hypertension (PH). Engraftment of BM hematopoietic stem cells from PH patients to mice reproduces the cardiopulmonary pathology of PH. However, it is unknown whether healthy BM can prevent the development of right heart disease. Caveolin-1-deficient (CAV-1 KO) mice develop cardiopulmonary disease with manifestations resembling PH, including elevated right ventricular (RV) systolic pressure (RVSP), RV hypertrophy, and pulmonary endothelial proliferative disease. Here, we hypothesize that engraftment of healthy BM to CAV-1 KO mice will prevent pulmonary vascular remodeling and development of the cardiopulmonary disease. CAV-1 KO mice and wild-type (WT) mice underwent transplantation with WT or CAV-1 KO BM. Hematopoietic differentiation was analyzed by flow cytometry. Pulmonary endothelial remodeling was quantified by CD31 image analysis. RVSP and RV cardiomyocyte area or Fulton's index were used to analyze RV hypertrophy. Maladaptive RV hypertrophy was determined by quantification of RV fibrosis. Transplantation of CAV-1 KO BM into healthy recipient WT mice led to elevation of RVSP, RV hypertrophy, and pulmonary endothelial remodeling. Reconstitution of CAV-1 KO with WT BM prevented spontaneous development of PH, including elevation of RVSP and maladaptive RV hypertrophy, but not pulmonary endothelial remodeling. Healthy BM has a protective role in the right ventricle independent of pulmonary vascular disease.	Current dogma is that pathological hypertrophy of the right ventricle is a direct consequence of pulmonary vascular remodeling. However, progression of right ventricle dysfunction is not always lung-dependent. Increased afterload caused by pulmonary vascular remodeling initiates the right ventricle hypertrophy, but determinants leading to adaptive or maladaptive hypertrophy and failure remain unknown. Ischemia in a hypertrophic right ventricle may directly contribute to right heart failure. Rapidly enlarging cardiomyocytes switch from aerobic to anaerobic energy generation resulting in cell growth under relatively hypoxic conditions. Cardiac muscle reacts to an increased afterload by over-activation of the sympathetic system and uncoupling and downregulation of β-adrenergic receptors. Recent studies suggest that β blocker therapy in PH is safe, well tolerated, and preserves right ventricle function and cardiac output by reducing right ventricular glycolysis. Fibrosis, an evolutionary conserved process in host defense and wound healing, is dysregulated in maladaptive cardiac tissue contributing directly to right ventricle failure. Despite several mechanisms having been suggested in right heart disease, the causes of maladaptive cardiac remodeling remain unknown and require further research.	Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a heterogeneous disease characterized by severe angiogenic remodeling of the pulmonary artery wall and right ventricular hypertrophy. Thus, there is an increasing need for novel biomarkers to dissect disease heterogeneity, and predict treatment response. Although β-adrenergic receptor (βAR) dysfunction is well documented in left heart disease while endothelial cell-derived microparticles (Ec-MPs) are established biomarkers of angiogenic remodeling, methods for easy large clinical cohort analysis of these biomarkers are currently absent. Here we describe flow cytometric methods for quantification of βAR density on circulating white blood cells (WBC) and Ec-MPs in urine samples that can be used as potential biomarkers of right heart failure in PAH. Biotinylated β-blocker alprenolol was synthesized and validated as a βAR specific probe that was combined with immunophenotyping to quantify βAR density in circulating WBC subsets. Ec-MPs obtained from urine samples were stained for annexin-V and CD144, and analyzed by a micro flow cytometer. Flow cytometric detection of alprenolol showed that βAR density was decreased in most WBC subsets in PAH samples compared to healthy controls. Ec-MPs in urine was increased in PAH compared to controls. Furthermore, there was a direct correlation between Ec-MPs and Tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion (TAPSE) in PAH patients. Therefore, flow cytometric quantification of peripheral blood cell βAR density and urinary Ec-MPs may be useful as potential biomarkers of right ventricular function in PAH. 	Angiogenesis is closely linked to and precedes eosinophilic infiltration in asthma. Eosinophils are recruited into the airway by chemoattractant eotaxins, which are expressed by endothelial cells, smooth muscles cells, epithelial cells, and hematopoietic cells. We hypothesized that bone marrow-derived proangiogenic progenitor cells that contain eotaxins contribute to the initiation of angiogenesis and inflammation in asthma. Whole-lung allergen challenge of atopic asthma patients revealed vascular activation occurs within hours of challenge and before airway inflammation. The eotaxin receptor CCR3 was expressed at high levels on submucosal endothelial cells in patients and a murine model of asthma. Ex vivo exposure of murine endothelial cells to eotaxins induced migration and angiogenesis. In mechanistic studies, wild-type mice transplanted with eotaxin-1/2-deficient bone marrow had markedly less angiogenesis and inflammation in an atopic asthma model, whereas adoptive transfer of proangiogenic progenitor cells from wild-type mice in an atopic asthma model into the eotaxin-1/2-deficient mice led to angiogenesis and airway inflammation. The findings indicate that Th2-promoting hematopoietic progenitor cells are rapidly recruited to the lung upon allergen exposure and release eotaxins that coordinately activate endothelial cells, angiogenesis, and airway inflammation. 	Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a progressive disease characterized by severe remodeling of the pulmonary artery resulting in increased pulmonary artery pressure and right ventricular hypertrophy and, ultimately, failure. Bone marrow-derived progenitor cells play a critical role in vascular homeostasis and have been shown to be involved in the pathogenesis of PAH. A proliferation of c-Kit(+) hematopoietic progenitors and mast cells has been noted in the remodeled vessels in PAH. Imatinib, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor that targets c-Kit, has been shown to be beneficial for patients with PAH. Here we hypothesize that the clinical benefit of imatinib in PAH could be related to c-Kit inhibition of progenitor cell mobilization and maturation into mast cells. As a corollary to the phase 3 study using imatinib in PAH, blood samples were collected from 12 patients prior to starting study drug (baseline) and while on treatment at weeks 4 and 24. Eight were randomized to imatinib and 4 to placebo. Circulating c-Kit(+) and CD34(+)CD133(+) hematopoietic progenitors as well as biomarkers of mast cell numbers and activation were measured. Circulating CD34(+)CD133(+) and c-Kit(+) progenitor cells as well as c-Kit(+)/CD34(+)CD133(+) decreased with imatinib therapy (all P &lt; 0.05). In addition, total tryptase, a marker of mast cell load, dropped with imatinib therapy (P = 0.02) and was related to pulmonary vascular resistance (R = 0.7, P = 0.02). The findings support c-Kit inhibition as a potential mechanism of action of imatinib in PAH and suggest that tryptase is a potential biomarker of response to therapy. 
Baker, Ken	Neurosciences	30061053	27151601	22661933	20816822	20059997	18091226	17078088	16234691	15611943	15269959	Many traumatic brain injury (TBI) survivors live with persistent disability from chronic motor deficits despite contemporary rehabilitation services, underscoring the need for novel treatment. We have previously shown that deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the lateral cerebellar nucleus (LCN) can enhance post-stroke motor recovery and increase the expression of markers of long-term potentiation in perilesional cerebral cortex. We hypothesize that a similar beneficial effect will be for motor deficits induced by unilateral fluid percussion injury (FPI) in rodents through long-term potentiation- and anti-inflammatory based mechanisms. Male Long Evans rats with a DBS macroelectrode in the LCN underwent FPI over contralateral primary motor cortex. After 4 weeks of spontaneous recovery, DBS treatment was applied for 4 weeks, with the pasta matrix, cylinder, and horizontal ladder tests used to evaluate motor performance. All animals were euthanized and tissue harvested for further analysis by histology, immunohistochemistry, RNA microarray assay and Western Blot. LCN DBS-treated animals experienced a significantly greater rate of motor recovery than untreated surgical controls, with treated animals showing enhanced expression of RNA and protein for excitability related genes, suppressed expression of pro-inflammatory genes, suppressed microglial and astrocytic activation, but proliferation of c-fos positive cells. Finally, our data suggest a possible role for anti-apoptotic effects with LCN DBS. LCN DBS enhanced the motor recovery following TBI, possibly by elevating the neuronal excitability at the perilesional area and mediating anti-apoptotic and anti-inflammatory effects.	Novel deep brain stimulation (DBS) paradigms are being explored in an effort to further optimize therapeutic outcome for patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). One approach, termed 'Coordinated Reset' (CR) DBS, was developed to target pathological oscillatory network activity. with desynchronizing effects and associated therapeutic benefit hypothesized to endure beyond cessation of stimulus delivery. To characterize the acute and carry-over effects of low-intensity CR DBS versus traditional DBS (tDBS) in the region of the subthalamic nucleus (STN). A within-subject, block treatment design involving the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) non-human primate model of parkinsonism was used. Each treatment block consisted of five days of daily DBS delivery followed by a one week minimum post-treatment observation window. Motor behavior was quantified using a modified rating scale for both animals combined with an objective, upper-extremity reach task in one animal. Both animals demonstrated significant motor improvements during acute tDBS; however, within-session and post-treatment carry-over was limited. Acute motor improvements were also observed in response to low-intensity CR DBS; however, both within- and between-session therapeutic carry-over enhanced progressively following each daily treatment. Moreover, in contrast to tDBS, five consecutive days of CR DBS treatment yielded carry-over benefits that persisted for up to two weeks without additional intervention. Notably, the magnitude and time-course of CR DBS' effects on each animal varied with daily dose-duration, pointing to possible interaction effects involving baseline parkinsonian severity. Our results support the therapeutic promise of CR DBS for PD, including its potential to induce carryover while reducing both side effect risk and hardware power consumption.	Stroke remains the leading cause for long-term motor impairment in the industrialized world. New techniques are needed to improve outcomes. To propose chronic electrical stimulation of the dentatothalamocortical pathway as a method for enhancing cortical excitability and improving motor recovery following stroke. In previous studies, motor evoked potentials were derived from intracortical microstimulation and used to index cortical excitability in rats undergoing continuous, asynchronous deep cerebellar stimulation. In a separate set of experiments, the effect of chronic deep cerebellar stimulation on motor recovery was tested in rats following large ischemic strokes. Deep cerebellar stimulation modulated cortical excitability in a frequency-dependent fashion. Beta band stimulation yielded sustained increment in excitability and was associated with enhanced motor recovery compared to sham stimulation. Chronic deep cerebellar stimulation enhances recovery of motor function following large ischemic strokes in the rat, an effect that may be associated with increased cortical excitability. Given that deep brain stimulation is already a well established method, this new approach to motor recovery may be a viable option for human translation in stroke rehabilitation.	The cerebral cortex is tightly and reciprocally linked to the cerebellum and the ascending dentato-thalalmo-cortical pathway influences widespread cortical regions. Using a rodent model of middle cerebral artery stroke, we showed previously that chronic, 20 Hz stimulation of the contralateral lateral cerebellar nucleus (LCN) improved motor recovery, while 50 Hz stimulation did not. Using motor evoked potentials (MEP) elicited by intracortical microstimulation, we now show the effect of LCN stimulation on motor cortex excitability as a function of pulse frequency in propofol-anesthetized rats. MEPs were recorded serially, at 15-s intervals, with cerebellar stimulation delivered in 10-min blocks at rates of 20, 30, 40, 50 or 100 Hz. Stimulation at 20, 30, 40 or 50 Hz enhanced the average MEP response across the block, with the maximal overall increase observed during 30 Hz stimulation. However, the effect varied as a function of both repeated trials within the block and LCN stimulation frequency, such that 40 Hz and 50 Hz stimulation showed a reduced effect over time. Stimulation at 100 Hz produced a transient increase in MEP amplitude in some animals; however the overall effect across the block was a trend towards reduced cortical excitability. These results suggest that direct stimulation of the LCN can yield frequency-dependent changes in cortical excitability and may provide a therapeutic approach to modulating cortical activity for the treatment of strokes or other focal cortical lesions, movement disorders and epilepsy.	Ablation or deep brain stimulation in the internal segment of the globus pallidus (GPi) is an effective therapy for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). Yet many patients receive only partial benefit, including varying levels of improvement across different body regions, which may relate to a differential effect of GPi surgery on the different body regions. Unfortunately, our understanding of the somatotopic organization of human GPi is based on a small number of studies with limited sample sizes, including several based upon only a single recording track or plane. To fully address the three-dimensional somatotopic organization of GPi, we examined the receptive field properties of pallidal neurons in a large cohort of patients undergoing stereotactic surgery. The response of neurons to active and passive movements of the limbs and orofacial structures was determined, using a minimum of three tracks across at least two medial-lateral planes. Neurons (3183) were evaluated from 299 patients, of which 1972 (62%) were modulated by sensorimotor manipulation. Of these, 1767 responded to a single, contralateral body region, with the remaining 205 responding to multiple and/or ipsilateral body regions. Leg-related neurons were found dorsal, medial and anterior to arm-related neurons, while arm-related neurons were dorsal and lateral to orofacial-related neurons. This study provides a more detailed map of individual body regions as well as specific joints within each region and provides a potential explanation for the differential effect of lesions or DBS of the GPi on different body parts in patients undergoing surgical treatment of movement disorders.	To demonstrate the pattern of activation associated with electrical stimulation through bilateral deep brain stimulation electrodes placed within the anterior limb of the internal capsule to the level of the ventral striatum for treatment of obsessive-compulsive disorder. A 44-year-old man with a 26-year history of obsessive-compulsive disorder underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and deep brain stimulation-evoked cortical potential testing after bilateral implantation of deep brain stimulation leads. Stimulation was delivered independently through the distal two contacts of each percutaneously extended lead using an external pulse generator. On postoperative Day 2, we used a 3-Tesla magnetic resonance system to measure changes in the fMRI blood oxygen level-dependent signal using stimulation parameters that were predetermined to demonstrate behavioral effects. All studies were well tolerated. Trial stimulations performed intraoperatively as well as on postsurgical Day 1 were associated with acutely elevated mood and reduced anxiety. Although the benefit achieved acutely was relatively symmetric between the bilaterally placed leads, follow-up programming showed a clear advantage to right-sided stimulation. Three of the four fMRI trials demonstrated good activation, with the fourth being moderately corrupted by motion artifact. The beneficial effects observed with right-sided stimulation were associated with activation of the ipsilateral head of the caudate, medial thalamus, and anterior cingulate cortex as well as the contralateral cerebellum. The distribution of the cortical evoked potentials was consistent with the locus of cortical activation observed with fMRI. High-frequency stimulation via a lead placed in the anterior limb of the internal capsule induced widespread hemodynamic changes at both the cortical and subcortical levels including areas typically associated with the pathogenesis of obsessive-compulsive disorder.	To compare the MRI-related heating per unit of specific absorption rate (SAR) profile of a conductive implant between two 1.5-Tesla/64 MHz MR systems using a transmit/receive (t/r) head coil configuration. Deep brain stimulation (DBS) leads were configured within a gel-filled phantom of the human head and torso. Temperature variation at each of four contacts of the bilaterally-placed leads was monitored using fluoroptic thermometry. MRI was performed using the t/r head coils of two different-generation 1.5-Tesla MR systems from the same manufacturer. Temperature changes were normalized to SAR values for the head (DeltaT/SAR-H), and the slope of this DeltaT/SAR-H by time relationship was compared between the two scanners. The DeltaT/SAR-H for the implant ranged from 3.5 to 5.5 times higher on one MR system as compared to the other (P &lt; 0.01) depending on the measurement site. The findings support previous observations that console-reported SAR does not constitute a reliable index of heating for elongated, conductive implants, such as the DBS hardware system tested. In contrast to our previous findings using a t/r body coil, the data presented here reveal marked differences between two MR systems using t/r head coils (the coil configuration was consistent with the implant manufacturer's imaging guidelines). J. Magn. Reson. Imaging 2006. (c) 2006 Wiley-Liss, Inc.	To evaluate the ability of a lead management device to reduce magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-related heating of deep brain stimulation (DBS) leads and thereby to decrease the risks of exposing patients with these implants to MRI procedures. Experiments were performed using the Activa series (Medtronic, Inc., Minneapolis, MN) DBS systems in an in vitro, gelled-saline head and torso phantom. Temperature change was recorded using fluoroptic thermometry during MRI performed using a transmit-and-receive radiofrequency body coil at 1.5 T and a transmit-and-receive radiofrequency head coil at 3 T. A cranial model placed in the phantom was used to test a custom-designed burr hole device that permitted the placement of small-diameter, concentric loops around the burr hole at the DBS lead as it exited the cranium. A total of 41 scans were performed, with absolute temperature changes ranging from 0.8 to 10.3 degrees C. Depending on the MRI system tested and the side of the phantom on which the hardware was placed, loop placement resulted in reductions in temperature rise of 41 to 74%. The effect was linearly related to the number of loops formed (P &lt; 0.01) over the range tested (0-2.75 loops). Small, concentric loops placed around the burr hole seem to reduce MRI-related heating for these implants. Although the mechanism is still not fully understood, a device such as that used in the present study could permit a wider range of clinical scanning sequences to be used at 1.5 and 3 T in patients with DBS implants, in addition to increasing the margin of safety for the patient.	To evaluate magnetic field interactions at 1.5- and 3-Tesla for implantable pulse generators (IPGs) and radiofrequency (RF) receivers used for implantable neurostimulation systems. Measurements of magnetically induced displacement force and torque were determined for 10 devices (seven IPGs, three RF receivers) used for neurostimulation systems. Displacement force and torque were assessed at various positions in 1.5- and 3-Tesla MR systems using standardized techniques. Four IPGs exhibited force ratios (magnetic attraction force/device weight) greater than 1.0, with the overall magnitude of the force ratio increasing significantly when comparing the 1.5-Tesla to the 3-Tesla MR system. Of the seven IPGs tested, one exhibited a torque ratio (magnetic induced torque/product of the device weight and length) greater than 1.0. The RF receivers displayed relatively strong magnetic field interactions at both 1.5- and 3-Tesla, exhibiting force and torque ratios greater than 1.0. The neurostimulation implants tested exhibited varying degrees of magnetic field interactions, with four of the seven IPGs and the three RF receivers exhibiting at least one MR-induced force or torque value greater than the effect of gravity. These findings have important implications for patients with these implants who are referred for MRI examinations.	To compare the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-related heating per unit of whole body averaged specific absorption rate (SAR) of a conductive implant exposed to two different 1.5-Tesla/64 MHz MR systems. Temperature changes at the electrode contacts of a deep brain stimulation lead were measured using fluoroptic thermometry. The leads were placed in a typical surgical implant configuration within a gel-filled phantom of the human head and torso. MRI was performed using two different transmit/receive body coils on two different generation 1.5-Tesla MR systems from the same manufacturer. Temperature changes were normalized to whole body averaged SAR values and compared between the two scanners. Depending on the landmark location, the normalized temperature change for the implant was significantly higher on one MR system compared to the other (P &lt; 0.001). The findings revealed marked differences across two MR systems in the level of radiofrequency (RF)-induced temperature changes per unit of whole body SAR for a conductive implant. Thus, these data suggest that using SAR to guide MR safety recommendations for neurostimulation systems or other similar implants across different MR systems is unreliable and, therefore, potentially dangerous. Better, more universal, measures are required in order to ensure patient safety.
Baldwin, William	Inflammation and Immunity	30903736	28614792	26575854	25582188	25160697	25145937	22789623	21937238	21157344	20689436	IgG and albumin are the most abundant proteins in the circulation and have the longest half-lives. These properties are due to a unique receptor, the neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn). Although FcRn is named for its function of transferring IgG across the placenta from maternal to fetal circulation, FcRn functions throughout life to maintain IgG and albumin concentrations. FcRn protects IgG and albumin from intracellular degradation and recycles them back into the circulation. Clinical trials have confirmed that pathogenic antibodies can be depleted by blocking this homeostatic function of FcRn. Moreover, understanding the molecular interactions between IgG and FcRn has resulted in the design of therapeutic monoclonal antibodies with more efficacious pharmacokinetics. As a result of genetic engineering these monoclonals can be delivered at lower doses and at longer intervals. More recent findings have demonstrated that FcRn enhances phagocytosis by neutrophils, immune complex clearance by podocytes and antigen presentation by dendritic cells, macrophages, and B cells. This minireview highlights the relevance of FcRn to transplantation.	Adiponectin is a pleiotropic cytokine with diverse immunomodulatory effects on macrophages and lymphocytes. In the current paradigm, lymphocytes and macrophages respond to adiponectin that is produced by adipocytes and other parenchymal cells. Using a model of chronic arterial inflammation in cardiac transplants, we found that T cells derived from the recipient migrate to the heart and produce adiponectin locally. The evidence that T cells produce significant amounts of adiponectin is based on 3 experimental approaches. First, CD4+ T cells isolated from the blood and spleen after cardiac transplantation express mRNA for adiponectin. Second, reconstitution of T cell-deficient recipients with transgenic CD4+ T cells that express receptors for donor antigens results in arterial infiltrates containing T cells and increased mRNA expression for adiponectin in cardiac transplants. Third, CD4+ T cells isolated from the allograft secrete adiponectin in vitro. Taken together, these data indicate that adiponectin-competent cells originating in the recipient migrate into the transplant. Establishing T cells as a source of adiponectin provides a new dimension, to our knowledge, to the modulatory effects of adiponectin on immune responses.	Antibody-mediated rejection is responsible for up to half of acute rejection episodes in kidney transplant patients and more than half of late graft failures. Antibodies cause acute graft abnormalities that are distinct from T cell-mediated rejection and at later times posttransplant, a distinct pathologic lesion is associated with capillary basement membrane multilayering and glomerulopathy. Despite the importance of donor-reactive antibodies as the leading cause of kidney graft failure, mechanisms underlying antibody-mediated acute and chronic kidney graft injury are poorly understood. Here, we review recent insights provided from clinical studies as well as from animal models that may help to identify new targets for therapy. Studies of biopsies from kidney grafts in patients with donor-specific antibody versus those without have utilized analysis of pathologic lesions and gene expression to identify the distinct characteristics of antibody-mediated rejection. These analyses have indicated the presence of natural killer cells and their activation during antibody-mediated rejection. The impact of studies of antibody-mediated allograft injury in animal models have lagged behind these clinical studies, but have been useful in testing the activation of innate immune components within allografts in the presence of donor-specific antibodies. Most insights into processes of antibody-mediated rejection of kidney grafts have come from carefully designed clinical studies. However, several new mouse models of antibody-mediated kidney allograft rejection may replicate the abnormalities observed in clinical kidney grafts and may be useful in directly testing mechanisms that underlie acute and chronic antibody-mediated graft injury.	Acute and chronic rejection impact distinct compartments of cardiac allografts. Intramyocardial mononuclear cell infiltrates define acute rejection, whereas chronic rejection affects large arteries. Hearts transplanted from male to female C57BL/6 mice undergo acute rejection with interstitial infiltrates at 2 weeks that resolve by 6 weeks when large arteries develop arteriopathy. These processes are dependent on T cells because no infiltrates developed in T cell-deficient mice and transfer of CD4 T cells restored T cell as well as macrophage infiltrates and ultimately neointima formation. Markers of inflammatory macrophages were up-regulated in the interstitium acutely and decreased as markers of wound healing macrophages increased chronically. Programmed cell death protein, a negative costimulator, and its ligand PDL1 were up-regulated in the interstitium during resolution of acute rejection. Blocking PDL1:PD1 interactions in the acute phase increased interstitial T cell infiltrates. Toll-like receptor (TLR) 4 and its endogenous ligand hyaluronan were increased in arteries with neointimal expansion. Injection of hyaluronan fragments increased intragraft production of chemokines. Our data indicate that negative costimulatory pathways are critical for the resolution of acute interstitial infiltrates. In the arterial compartment recognition of endogenous ligands including hyaluronan by the innate TLRs may support the progression of arteriopathy. 	Experimental models have contributed enormously to basic immunology. However, the use of reductionist experiments has produced results that are not always successfully translated into the clinic. Recently, incorporation of more realistic clinical parameters in experimental designs has produced new insights relevant to cardiac transplantation. Experiments in mice have provided crucial insights into the concept that T cell responses to pathogens generate memory cells with cross-reactive specificities for histocompatibility antigens. These memory T cells are resistant to current immunosuppressive strategies. Memory T cells infiltrate grafts within hours after transplantation, and grafts subjected to clinically relevant periods of cold ischemia are more susceptible to injury by this cellular infiltrate. Early immune responses now can be investigated with improved 'humanized' mice. Mice with multiple knock-in genes for human cytokines support development of human monocytes, macrophages and natural killer cells in increased numbers and with better function. Better and more clinically relevant experimental designs are providing animal models tailored to address clinic exigencies.	Antibody-mediated rejection is a major complication in renal transplantation. The pathologic manifestations of acute antibody-mediated rejection that has progressed to functional impairment of a renal transplant have been defined in clinical biopsy specimens. However, the initial stages of the process are difficult to resolve with the unavoidable variables of clinical studies. We devised a model of renal transplantation to elucidate the initial stages of humoral rejection. Kidneys were orthotopically allografted to immunodeficient mice. After perioperative inflammation subsided, donor-specific alloantibodies were passively transferred to the recipient. Within 1 hour after a single transfer of antibodies, C4d was deposited diffusely on capillaries, and von Willebrand factor released from endothelial cells coated intravascular platelet aggregates. Platelet-transported inflammatory mediators platelet factor 4 and serotonin accumulated in the graft at 100- to 1000-fold higher concentrations compared with other platelet-transported chemokines. Activated platelets that expressed P-selectin attached to vascular endothelium and macrophages. These intragraft inflammatory changes were accompanied by evidence of acute endothelial injury. Repeated transfers of alloantibodies over 1 week sustained high levels of platelet factor 4 and serotonin. Platelet depletion decreased platelet mediators and altered the accumulation of macrophages. These data indicate that platelets augment early inflammation in response to donor-specific antibodies and that platelet-derived mediators may be markers of evolving alloantibody responses. 	The early histological studies of organ allografts noted platelets attached to vascular endothelium. Platelets adhere to vessels before any morphological evidence of endothelial injury. Subsequently, in vitro and in vivo experiments have demonstrated that alloantibodies can induce exocytosis of von Willebrand factor and P-selectin from endothelial cells and attachment of platelets within minutes. Platelets also adhere to and stimulate leukocytes. These interactions are increased by complement activation. After attachment platelets degranulate, releasing preformed mediators. Some chemokines stored together in platelet granules can form heteromers with synergistic functions. Heteromers containing platelet factor 4 (PF4; CXCL4) are specific to platelets and provide insights to unique platelet functions and opportunities for therapeutic intervention.	After many years of debate, there is now general agreement that B cells can participate in the immune response to cardiac transplants. Acute antibody-mediated rejection (AMR) is the best defined manifestation of B cell responses, but diagnostic and mechanistic questions still surround AMR. Many complement dependent mechanisms of antibody-mediated injury have been elucidated. C5 has become a therapeutic target that may not just truncate complement activation, but also may tip the balance away from inflammation by altering macrophage function. Additional complement independent effects have been identified. These may escape diagnosis and progress to chronic graft injury. The function of B cell infiltrates in cardiac transplants is even more enigmatic. Nodular endocardial infiltrates that contain B cells and plasma cells have been described in protocol biopsies of cardiac transplants for decades, but an understanding of their significance is still evolving based on more critical morphological and molecular evaluation of these infiltrates. A range of infiltrates containing B cells has also been described in the epicardial fat in transplants with advanced chronic rejection. B cells have been observed in endocardial and epicardial tertiary lymphoid nodules, but their impact on antigen presentation or antibody production remains to be determined. Experimental models in small and large animals suggest that B cells could be essential for the formation of lymphoid nodules through cytokine production. Similarly, the role of proinflammatory adipokines in the formation or function of epicardial lymphoid nodules has not been studied. These clinical observations provide critical questions to be addressed in experimental models.	Over the last decade there has been mounting experimental data demonstrating that platelets contribute to acute vascular inflammation and atherosclerosis. This review focuses on recent findings that link platelets to inflammatory responses of relevance to transplants. Although it has been known that platelets modify vascular inflammation by secretion of soluble mediators and release of microparticles, new aspects of these mechanisms are being defined. For example, platelet-derived CCL5 not only functions in homomers, but also forms more potent heteromers with platelet factor 4 (PF4; CXCL4). This heteromer formation can be inhibited with small molecules. New findings also demonstrate heterologous interactions of platelet microparticles with leukocytes that may increase their range of impact. By attaching to neutrophils, platelet microparticles appear to migrate out of blood vessels and into other compartments where they stimulate secretion of cytokines. Contact of platelets with extracellular matrix also can result in cleavage of hyaluronan into fragments that serve as an endogenous danger signal. Recent findings have expanded the range of interactions by which platelets can modify innate and adaptive immune responses to transplants.	Cardiac allograft vasculopathy (CAV) is still a major cause of chronic graft failure. CAV develops in the coronary arteries as a diffuse, concentric expansion of the intima in conjunction with inflammation and fibrosis of the adventitia. We review recent publications that could link metabolic and immunologic risk factors for CAV.A concept is offered that periarterial adipocytes may provide proinflammatory cytokines that augment immune injury of the coronary arteries. Clinical and experimental evidence indicate that some alloantibodies and autoantibodies are associated with CAV. Limited data are available on the expression of target antigens on coronary arteries at different times after transplantation. Perivascular adipose tissue is an abundant source of IL-6, IL-8 and MCP-1. Adding to the inflammatory bias, perivascular adipocytes secrete less of the anti-inflammatory adiponectin in comparison to other types of fat. Adiponectin modulates expression of adhesion molecules on the vascular endothelium. It also decreases neointimal formation in arteries following mechanical endovascular injury. Alterations in the balance between proinflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines secreted by perivascular fat have been implicated in atherosclerosis and restenosis. This imbalance may also augment the immune responses in the coronary arteries of transplanted hearts.
Baltan, Selva	Neurosciences	31010535	30135960	30125643	29891729	26407763	30385717	27683897	25034458	23881453	23050648	NA	Mechanisms of ischemic preconditioning have been extensively studied in gray matter. However, an ischemic episode affects both the gray matter (GM) and white matter (WM) portions of the brain. Inhibition of mitochondrial fission is one of the mechanisms of preconditioning neuronal cell bodies against ischemia. Although axons are anatomical extensions of neuronal cell bodies, injury mechanisms differ between GM and WM. Indeed, axonal dysfunction is responsible for much of the disability associated with clinical deficits observed after stroke; however, the signaling process underlying preconditioning remains unexplored in axons. Using mouse optic nerve, which is a pure isolated WM tract, we show that mitochondria in myelinated axons undergo rapid and profuse fission during oxygen glucose deprivation (OGD) that is mediated by translocation of cytoplasmic Dynamin Related Protein-1 (Drp-1) to mitochondria. OGD-induced mitochondrial fission correlates with reduced mitochondrial motility and loss of axon function. Mitochondrial fragmentation and loss of motility become permanent during the recovery period. Inhibiting mitochondrial fission by administering mitochondrial division inhibitor-1 (Mdivi-1) during OGD preserves mitochondrial shape and motility and promotes axon function recovery. In contrast, preconditioning WM by applying Mdivi-1 only before OGD fails to conserve mitochondrial shape or motility and fails to benefit axon function. Our findings suggest that inhibition of mitochondrial fission during ischemia promotes axon function recovery, but is not sufficient to precondition WM against ischemia. These results raise caution in that approaches to preconditioning neuronal cell bodies may not successfully translate into functional improvement following ischemia.	Strokes occur predominantly in the elderly and white matter (WM) is injured in most strokes, contributing to the disability associated with clinical deficits. Casein kinase 2 (CK2) is expressed in neuronal cells and was reported to be neuroprotective during cerebral ischemia. Recently, we reported that CK2 is abundantly expressed by glial cells and myelin. However, in contrast to its role in cerebral (gray matter) ischemia, CK2 activation during ischemia mediated WM injury via the CDK5 and AKT/GSK3β signaling pathways (Bastian et al., 2018). Subsequently, CK2 inhibition using the small molecule inhibitor CX-4945 correlated with preservation of oligodendrocytes as well as conservation of axon structure and axonal mitochondria, leading to improved functional recovery. Notably, CK2 inhibition promoted WM function when applied before or after ischemic injury by differentially regulating the CDK5 and AKT/GSK3β pathways. Specifically, blockade of the active conformation of AKT conferred post-ischemic protection to young, aging, and old WM, suggesting a common therapeutic target across age groups. CK2 inhibitors are currently being used in clinical trials for cancer patients; therefore, it is important to consider the potential benefits of CK2 inhibitors during an ischemic attack.	White matter (WM) damage following a stroke underlies a majority of the neurological disability that is subsequently observed. Although ischemic injury mechanisms are age-dependent, conserving axonal mitochondria provides consistent post-ischemic protection to young and aging WM. Nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activation is a major cause of oxidative and mitochondrial injury in gray matter during ischemia; therefore, we used a pure WM tract, isolated male mouse optic nerve, to investigate whether NOS inhibition provides post-ischemic functional recovery by preserving mitochondria. We show that pan-NOS inhibition applied before oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) promotes functional recovery of young and aging axons and preserves WM cellular architecture. This protection correlates with reduced nitric oxide (NO) generation, restored glutathione production, preserved axonal mitochondria and oligodendrocytes, and preserved ATP levels. Pan-NOS inhibition provided post-ischemic protection to only young axons, whereas selective inhibition of NOS3 conferred post-ischemic protection to both young and aging axons. Concurrently, genetic deletion of NOS3 conferred long-lasting protection to young axons against ischemia. OGD upregulated NOS3 levels in astrocytes, and we show for the first time that inhibition of NOS3 generation in glial cells prevents axonal mitochondrial fission and restores mitochondrial motility to confer protection to axons by preserving Miro-2 levels. Interestingly, NOS1 inhibition exerted post-ischemic protection selectively to aging axons, which feature age-dependent mechanisms of oxidative injury in WM. Our study provides the first evidence that inhibition of glial NOS activity confers long-lasting benefits to WM function and structure and suggests caution in defining the role of NO in cerebral ischemia at vascular and cellular levels.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT White matter (WM) injury during stroke is manifested as the subsequent neurological disability in surviving patients. Aging primarily impacts CNS WM and mechanisms of ischemic WM injury change with age. Nitric oxide is involved in various mitochondrial functions and we propose that inhibition of glia-specific nitric oxide synthase (NOS) isoforms promotes axon function recovery by preserving mitochondrial structure, function, integrity, and motility. Using electrophysiology and three-dimensional electron microscopy, we show that NOS3 inhibition provides a common target to improve young and aging axon function, whereas NOS1 inhibition selectively protects aging axons when applied after injury. This study provides the first evidence that inhibition of glial cell NOS activity confers long-lasting benefits to WM structure and function.	Oligodendrocytes and axons are the main targets of an ischemic white matter injury and the resultant loss of axon function underlies the clinical disability in patients who survive a stroke. The cellular mechanisms of ischemic injury change as a function of age in concordance with age-mediated structural changes in white matter. Shorter periods of injury cause rapid and robust loss of axon function together with widespread oligodendrocyte death. While blockade of NMDA receptors fails to benefit axon function, removal of extracellular Ca<sup>2+</sup> during ischemia remarkably promotes axon function recovery in young white matter. However, these same approaches hinder axon function recovery and fail to protect oligodendrocytes in aging white matter. The obligatory GluN1 subunit of the NMDA receptor exhibits an age-specific expression pattern such that in young adult white matter, it is mostly localized on oligodendrocyte cell bodies, while in aging white matter, it is also observed on myelin processes. This age-dependent re-localization and redistribution pattern mimics GluN1 expression observed during development, but in reverse order. During development, GluN1 immunoreactivity traffics from astrocytes at postnatal day 4-11 (P4-11) to myelin processes at P12-18 and to oligodendrocytes cell bodies at P19-21. Although immature axons are more resistant to ischemia, blockade of NMDA receptors during ischemia at P4-11 and P12-18 worsens axon function recovery and fails to benefit axons at P19-21. Thus, age-specific expression patterns of NMDA receptor localization may seem to modulate the plasticity of oligodendrocytes and myelin in response to ischemia as a function of age in white matter. This article is part of the Special Issue entitled 'Oligodendrocytes in Health and Disease'.	Glioblastoma (GBM) remains uniformly lethal, and despite a large accumulation of immune cells in the microenvironment, there is limited antitumor immune response. To overcome these challenges, a comprehensive understanding of GBM systemic immune response during disease progression is required. Here, we integrated multiparameter flow cytometry and mass cytometry TOF (CyTOF) analysis of patient blood to determine changes in the immune system among tumor types and over disease progression. Utilizing flow cytometry analysis in a cohort of 259 patients ranging from benign to malignant primary and metastatic brain tumors, we found that GBM patients had a significant elevation in myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) in peripheral blood but not immunosuppressive Tregs. In GBM patient tissue, we found that increased MDSC levels in recurrent GBM portended poor prognosis. CyTOF analysis of peripheral blood from newly diagnosed GBM patients revealed that reduced MDSCs over time were accompanied by a concomitant increase in DCs. GBM patients with extended survival also had reduced MDSCs, similar to the levels of low-grade glioma (LGG) patients. Our findings provide a rationale for developing strategies to target MDSCs, which are elevated in GBM patients and predict poor prognosis.	The impact of aging on CNS white matter (WM) is of general interest because the global effects of aging on myelinated nerve fibers are more complex and profound than those in cortical gray matter. It is important to distinguish between axonal changes created by normal aging and those caused by neurodegenerative diseases, including multiple sclerosis, stroke, glaucoma, Alzheimer's disease, and traumatic brain injury. Using three-dimensional electron microscopy, we show that in mouse optic nerve, which is a pure and fully myelinated WM tract, aging axons are larger, have thicker myelin, and are characterized by longer and thicker mitochondria, which are associated with altered levels of mitochondrial shaping proteins. These structural alterations in aging mitochondria correlate with lower ATP levels and increased generation of nitric oxide, protein nitration, and lipid peroxidation. Moreover, mitochondria-smooth endoplasmic reticulum interactions are compromised due to decreased associations and decreased levels of calnexin and calreticulin, suggesting a disruption in Ca(2+) homeostasis and defective unfolded protein responses in aging axons. Despite these age-related modifications, axon function is sustained in aging WM, which suggests that age-dependent changes do not lead to irreversible functional decline under normal conditions, as is observed in neurodegenerative diseases. Aging is a common risk factor for a number of neurodegenerative diseases, including stroke. Mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative damage with age are hypothesized to increase risk for stroke. We compared axon-myelin-node-mitochondrion-smooth endoplasmic reticulum (SER) interactions in white matter obtained at 1 and 12 months. We show that aging axons have enlarged volume, thicker myelin, and elongated and thicker mitochondria. Furthermore, there are reduced SER connections to mitochondria that correlate with lower calnexin and calreticulin levels. Despite a prominent decrease in number, elongated aging mitochondria produce excessive stress markers with reduced ATP production. Because axons maintain function under these conditions, our study suggests that it is important to understand the process of normal brain aging to identify neurodegenerative changes.	In the mammalian white matter, glycogen-derived lactate from astrocytes plays a critical role in supporting axon function using the astrocyte-neuron lactate transfer shuttle (ANLTS) system with specialized monocarboxylate transporters (MCTs). A rapid breakdown of glycogen to lactate during increased neuronal activity or low glucose conditions becomes essential to maintain axon function. Therefore astrocytes actively regulate their glycogen stores with respect to ambient glucose levels such that high ambient glucose upregulates glycogen and low levels of glucose depletes glycogen stores. Although lactate fully supports axon function in the absence of glucose and becomes a preferred energy metabolite when axons discharge at high frequency, it fails to benefit axon function during an ischemic episode in white matter. Emerging evidence implies a similar lactate transport system between oligodendrocytes and the axons they myelinate, suggesting another metabolic coupling pathway in white matter. Therefore the conditions that activate this lactate shuttle system and the signaling mechanisms that mediate activation of this system are of great interest. Future studies are expected to unravel the details of oligodendrocyte-axon lactate metabolic coupling to establish how white matter components metabolically cooperate and that lactate may be the universal metabolite to sustain CNS function. 	Understanding how epigenetics influences the process and progress of a stroke could yield new targets and therapeutics for use in the clinic. Experimental evidence suggests that inhibitors of zinc-dependent histone deacetylases can protect neurons, axons, and associated glia from the devastating effects of oxygen and glucose deprivation. While the specific enzymes involved have yet to be clearly identified, there are hints from somewhat selective chemical inhibitors and also from the use of specific small hairpin RNAs to transiently knockdown protein expression. Neuroprotective mechanisms implicated thus far include the upregulation of extracellular glutamate clearance, inhibition of p53-mediated cell death, and maintenance of mitochondrial integrity. The histone deacetylases have distinct cellular and subcellular localizations, and discrete substrates. As a number of chemical inhibitors are already in clinical use for the treatment of cancer, repurposing for the stroke clinic should be expedited. 	Aging increases the vulnerability of aging white matter to ischemic injury. Histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors preserve young adult white matter structure and function during ischemia by conserving ATP and reducing excitotoxicity. In isolated optic nerve from 12-month-old mice, deprived of oxygen and glucose, we show that pan- and Class I-specific HDAC inhibitors promote functional recovery of axons. This protection correlates with preservation of axonal mitochondria. The cellular expression of HDAC 3 in the central nervous system (CNS), and HDAC 2 in optic nerve considerably changed with age, expanding to more cytoplasmic domains from nuclear compartments, suggesting that changes in glial cell protein acetylation may confer protection to aging axons. Our results indicate that manipulation of HDAC activities in glial cells may have a universal potential for stroke therapy across age groups.
Bao, Shideng	Cancer Biology	29848664	27923907	27740621	26510911	25580734	24831540	24675569	23563177	23540695	22569092	Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most lethal primary brain tumor and is highly resistant to current treatments. GBM harbors glioma stem cells (GSCs) that not only initiate and maintain malignant growth but also promote therapeutic resistance including radioresistance. Thus, targeting GSCs is critical for overcoming the resistance to improve GBM treatment. Because the bone marrow and X-linked (BMX) nonreceptor tyrosine kinase is preferentially up-regulated in GSCs relative to nonstem tumor cells and the BMX-mediated activation of the signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) is required for maintaining GSC self-renewal and tumorigenic potential, pharmacological inhibition of BMX may suppress GBM growth and reduce therapeutic resistance. We demonstrate that BMX inhibition by ibrutinib potently disrupts GSCs, suppresses GBM malignant growth, and effectively combines with radiotherapy. Ibrutinib markedly disrupts the BMX-mediated STAT3 activation in GSCs but shows minimal effect on neural progenitor cells (NPCs) lacking BMX expression. Mechanistically, BMX bypasses the suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 (SOCS3)-mediated inhibition of Janus kinase 2 (JAK2), whereas NPCs dampen the JAK2-mediated STAT3 activation via the negative regulation by SOCS3, providing a molecular basis for targeting BMX by ibrutinib to specifically eliminate GSCs while preserving NPCs. Our preclinical data suggest that repurposing ibrutinib for targeting GSCs could effectively control GBM tumor growth both as monotherapy and as adjuvant with conventional therapies.	Glioblastoma is the most lethal brain tumor and harbors glioma stem cells (GSCs) with potent tumorigenic capacity. The function of GSCs in tumor propagation is maintained by several core transcriptional regulators including c-Myc. c-Myc protein is tightly regulated by posttranslational modification. However, the posttranslational regulatory mechanisms for c-Myc in GSCs have not been defined. In this study, we demonstrate that the deubiquitinase USP13 stabilizes c-Myc by antagonizing FBXL14-mediated ubiquitination to maintain GSC self-renewal and tumorigenic potential. USP13 was preferentially expressed in GSCs, and its depletion potently inhibited GSC proliferation and tumor growth by promoting c-Myc ubiquitination and degradation. In contrast, overexpression of the ubiquitin E3 ligase FBXL14 induced c-Myc degradation, promoted GSC differentiation, and inhibited tumor growth. Ectopic expression of the ubiquitin-insensitive mutant T58A-c-Myc rescued the effects caused by FBXL14 overexpression or USP13 disruption. These data suggest that USP13 and FBXL14 play opposing roles in the regulation of GSCs through reversible ubiquitination of c-Myc.	Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most malignant and lethal brain tumor harboring glioma stem cells (GSCs) that promote tumor propagation and therapeutic resistance. GSCs preferentially express several critical cell surface molecules that regulate the pro-survival signaling for maintaining the stem cell-like phenotype. Tetraspanin CD9 has recently been reported as a GSC biomarker that is relevant to the GSC maintenance. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms of CD9 in maintaining GSC property remain elusive. Herein, we report that CD9 stabilizes the IL-6 receptor glycoprotein 130 (gp130) by preventing its ubiquitin-dependent lysosomal degradation to facilitate the STAT3 activation in GSCs. CD9 is preferentially expressed in GSCs of human GBM tumors. Mass spectrometry analysis identified gp130 as an interacting protein of CD9 in GSCs, which was confirmed by immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescent analyses. Disrupting CD9 or gp130 by shRNA significantly inhibited the self-renewal and promoted the differentiation of GSCs. Moreover, CD9 disruption markedly reduced gp130 protein levels and STAT3 activating phosphorylation in GSCs. CD9 stabilized gp130 by preventing its ubiquitin-dependent lysosomal degradation to promote the BMX-STAT3 signaling in GSCs. Importantly, targeting CD9 potently inhibited GSC tumor growth in vivo, while ectopic expression of the constitutively activated STAT3 (STAT3-C) restored the tumor growth impaired by CD9 disruption. Collectively, we uncovered a critical regulatory mechanism mediated by tetraspanin CD9 to maintain the stem cell-like property and tumorigenic potential of GSCs.	Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most lethal brain tumor. Tumor relapse in GBM is inevitable despite maximal therapeutic interventions. Glioma stem cells (GSCs) have been found to be critical players in therapeutic resistance and tumor recurrence. Therapeutic drugs targeting GSCs may significantly improve GBM treatment. In this study, we demonstrated that arsenic trioxide (As2O3) effectively disrupted GSCs and inhibited tumor growth in the GSC-derived orthotopic xenografts by targeting the promyelocytic leukaemia (PML). As2O3 treatment induced rapid degradation of PML protein along with severe apoptosis in GSCs. Disruption of the endogenous PML recapitulated the inhibitory effects of As2O3 treatment on GSCs both in vitro and in orthotopic tumors. Importantly, As2O3 treatment dramatically reduced GSC population in the intracranial GBM xenografts and increased the survival of mice bearing the tumors. In addition, As2O3 treatment preferentially inhibited cell growth of GSCs but not matched non-stem tumor cells (NSTCs). Furthermore, As2O3 treatment or PML disruption potently diminished c-Myc protein levels through increased poly-ubiquitination and proteasome degradation of c-Myc. Our study indicated a potential implication of As2O3 in GBM treatment and highlighted the important role of PML/c-Myc axis in the maintenance of GSCs. 	Tumour-associated macrophages (TAMs) are enriched in glioblastoma multiformes (GBMs) that contain glioma stem cells (GSCs) at the apex of their cellular hierarchy. The correlation between TAM density and glioma grade suggests a supportive role for TAMs in tumour progression. Here we interrogated the molecular link between GSCs and TAM recruitment in GBMs and demonstrated that GSCs secrete periostin (POSTN) to recruit TAMs. TAM density correlates with POSTN levels in human GBMs. Silencing POSTN in GSCs markedly reduced TAM density, inhibited tumour growth, and increased survival of mice bearing GSC-derived xenografts. We found that TAMs in GBMs are not brain-resident microglia, but mainly monocyte-derived macrophages from peripheral blood. Disrupting POSTN specifically attenuated the tumour-supportive M2 type of TAMs in xenografts. POSTN recruits TAMs through the integrin αvβ₃ as blocking this signalling by an RGD peptide inhibited TAM recruitment. Our findings highlight the possibility of improving GBM treatment by targeting POSTN-mediated TAM recruitment.	Glioblastomas are highly lethal brain tumors containing tumor-propagating glioma stem cells (GSCs). The molecular mechanisms underlying the maintenance of the GSC phenotype are not fully defined. Here we demonstrate that the zinc finger and X-linked transcription factor (ZFX) maintains GSC self-renewal and tumorigenic potential by upregulating c-Myc expression. ZFX is differentially expressed in GSCs relative to non-stem glioma cells and neural progenitor cells. Disrupting ZFX by shRNA reduced c-Myc expression and potently inhibited GSC self-renewal and tumor growth. Ectopic expression of c-Myc to its endogenous level rescued the effects caused by ZFX disruption, supporting that ZFX controls GSC properties through c-Myc. Furthermore, ZFX binds to a specific sequence (GGGCCCCG) on the human c-Myc promoter to upregulate c-Myc expression. These data demonstrate that ZFX functions as a critical upstream regulator of c-Myc and plays essential roles in the maintenance of the GSC phenotype. This study also supports that c-Myc is a dominant driver linking self-renewal to malignancy.	Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most lethal and aggressive type of primary brain malignancy. Failures of the traditional therapies in treating GBMs raise the urgent requirement to develop new approaches with more responsive targets. The phenomenon of the high infiltration of tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) into GBMs has been observed for a long time. Regardless of the limited knowledge about TAMs, the high percentage of supportive TAM in GBM tumor mass makes it possible to be a good target for GBM treatment. In this review, we discussed the unique features of TAMs in GBMs, including their origin, the tumor-supportive properties, the secreted cytokines, and the relevant mechanisms. In addition, we tried to interpret the current understandings about the interplay between GBM cancer cells and TAMs. Finally, the translational studies of targeting TAMs were also described. 	The promyelocytic leukemia (PML) protein, initially discovered as a part of the PML/retinoic acid receptor alpha fusion protein, has been found to be a critical player in oncogenesis and tumor progression. Multiple cellular activities, including DNA repair, alternative lengthening of telomeres, transcriptional control, apoptosis and senescence, are regulated by PML and its featured subcellular structure, the PML nuclear body. In correspondence with its role in many important life processes, PML mediates several complex downstream signaling pathways. The determinant function of PML in tumorigenesis and cancer progression raises the interest in its involvement in cancer stem cells (CSCs), a subpopulation of cancer cells that share properties with stem cells and are critical for tumor propagation. Recently, there are exciting discoveries concerning the requirement of PML in CSC maintenance. Growing evidences strongly suggest a positive role of PML in regulating CSCs in both hematopoietic cancers and solid tumors, whereas the underlying mechanisms may be different and remain elusive. Here we summarize and discuss the PML-mediated signaling pathways in cancers and their potential roles in regulating CSCs. 	Glioblastomas (GBMs) are highly vascular and lethal brain tumors that display cellular hierarchies containing self-renewing tumorigenic glioma stem cells (GSCs). Because GSCs often reside in perivascular niches and may undergo mesenchymal differentiation, we interrogated GSC potential to generate vascular pericytes. Here, we show that GSCs give rise to pericytes to support vessel function and tumor growth. In vivo cell lineage tracing with constitutive and lineage-specific fluorescent reporters demonstrated that GSCs generate the majority of vascular pericytes. Selective elimination of GSC-derived pericytes disrupts the neovasculature and potently inhibits tumor growth. Analysis of human GBM specimens showed that most pericytes are derived from neoplastic cells. GSCs are recruited toward endothelial cells via the SDF-1/CXCR4 axis and are induced to become pericytes predominantly by transforming growth factor β. Thus, GSCs contribute to vascular pericytes that may actively remodel perivascular niches. Therapeutic targeting of GSC-derived pericytes may effectively block tumor progression and improve antiangiogenic therapy.	REST/NRSF (the RE-1 silencing transcription factor or neuron-restrictive silencer factor) was originally identified as a transcriptional repressor of a number of neuronal-specific genes in neural stem cells and non-neuronal cells. REST functions as a master regulator in the maintenance of neural stem cells. During tumorigenesis, REST shows opposing roles in different type of cells. In human epithelial cancers such as colon cancer, REST acts as a tumor suppressor. In contrast, REST plays an oncogenic role in the development of brain tumors and other cancers. Abnormal upregulation of REST has been found in medulloblastoma, neuroblastoma and glioblastoma (GBM). Recent studies in GBMs suggest that REST exerts its oncogenic function by maintaining self-renewal potential of glioma stem cells (GSCs).
Barnard, John	Quantitative Health Sciences	27856959	23863953	16373612	30902390	30407210	29937400	25523945	24465984	24854990	29287092	In many longitudinal follow-up studies, we observe more than one longitudinal outcome. Impaired renal and liver functions are indicators of poor clinical outcomes for patients who are on mechanical circulatory support and awaiting heart transplant. Hence, monitoring organ functions while waiting for heart transplant is an integral part of patient management. Longitudinal measurements of bilirubin can be used as a marker for liver function and glomerular filtration rate for renal function. We derive an approximation to evolution of association between these two organ functions using a bivariate nonlinear mixed effects model for continuous longitudinal measurements, where the two submodels are linked by a common distribution of time-dependent latent variables and a common distribution of measurement errors.	Genetic mechanisms of atrial fibrillation (AF) remain incompletely understood. Previous differential expression studies in AF were limited by small sample size and provided limited understanding of global gene networks, prompting the need for larger-scale, network-based analyses. Left atrial tissues from Cleveland Clinic patients who underwent cardiac surgery were assayed using Illumina Human HT-12 mRNA microarrays. The data set included 3 groups based on cardiovascular comorbidities: mitral valve (MV) disease without coronary artery disease (n=64), coronary artery disease without MV disease (n=57), and lone AF (n=35). Weighted gene coexpression network analysis was performed in the MV group to detect modules of correlated genes. Module preservation was assessed in the other 2 groups. Module eigengenes were regressed on AF severity or atrial rhythm at surgery. Modules whose eigengenes correlated with either AF phenotype were analyzed for gene content. A total of 14 modules were detected in the MV group; all were preserved in the other 2 groups. One module (124 genes) was associated with AF severity and atrial rhythm across all groups. Its top hub gene, RCAN1, is implicated in calcineurin-dependent signaling and cardiac hypertrophy. Another module (679 genes) was associated with atrial rhythm in the MV and coronary artery disease groups. It was enriched with cell signaling genes and contained cardiovascular developmental genes including TBX5. Our network-based approach found 2 modules strongly associated with AF. Further analysis of these modules may yield insight into AF pathogenesis by providing novel targets for functional studies.	Apolipoprotein (apo) E-deficient mice are hypercholesterolemic and develop atherosclerosis on low-fat chow diets; however, the genetic background strain has a large effect on atherosclerosis susceptibility. This study aimed to determine the genetic regions associated with strain effects on lesion area. We performed a strain intercross between atherosclerosis sensitive DBA/2 and atherosclerosis resistant AKR apoE-deficient mice. Aortic root lesion area, total cholesterol, body weights, and complete blood counts were ascertained for 114 male and 95 female F2 progeny. A high-density genome scan was performed using a mouse single nucleotide polymorphism chip yielding 1967 informative polymorphic markers. Quantitative trait locus (QTL) statistical analyses were performed. Novel loci associated with lesion or log lesion area were identified for the female and male F2 cohorts. The atherosclerosis QTLs in female mice reside on chromosomes 15, 5, 3, and 13, and in male mice on chromosomes 17, 18, and 2. QTL were also identified for body weight, total cholesterol, and blood count parameters. Loci were identified for atherosclerosis susceptibility in a strain intercross study. The identity of the responsible genes at these loci remains to be determined.	HERC2 is a giant protein with E3 ubiquitin ligase activity and other known and suspected functions. Mutations of HERC2 are implicated in the pathogenesis of various cancers and result in severe neurological conditions in Herc2-mutant mice. Recently, a pleotropic autosomal recessive HERC2-associated syndrome of intellectual disability, autism and variable neurological deficits was described; its pathogenetic basis is largely unknown. Using peripheral blood-derived lymphoblasts from 3 persons with homozygous HERC2 variants and 14 age- and gender-matched controls, we performed label-free unbiased HPLC-tandem mass spectrometry-based proteomic analyses to provide insights into HERC2-mediated pathobiology. We found that out of 3427 detected proteins, there were 812 differentially expressed proteins between HERC2-cases vs. controls. 184 canonical pathways were enriched after FDR adjustment, including mitochondrial function, energy metabolism, EIF2 signaling, immune functions, ubiquitination and DNA repair. Ingenuity Pathway Analysis<sup>®</sup> identified 209 upstream regulators that could drive the differential expression, prominent amongst which were neurodegeneration-associated proteins. Differentially expressed protein interaction networks highlighted themes of immune function/dysfunction, regulation of cell cycle/cell death, and energy metabolism. Overall, the analysis of the HERC2-associated proteome revealed striking differential protein expression between cases and controls. The large number of differentially expressed proteins likely reflects HERC2's multiple domains and numerous interacting proteins. Our canonical pathway and protein interaction network findings suggest derangements of multiple pathways in HERC2-associated disease.	ABO blood groups have been associated with venous thromboembolism and arterial thrombosis. Although platelets play key roles in thrombogenesis, the relation between ABO groups and platelets is not well known and was investigated in this study. ABO blood type information was retrospectively obtained for 206 patients who underwent percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) and received dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and clopidogrel. Platelet function was measured using VerifyNow system, light transmission aggregometry, thromboxane B2, urinary 11-dehydrothromboxane B2, and vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein phosphorylation assays. Samples were also tested following treatment with 10 and 30 µmol/l of aspirin or 30 and 100 µmol/l of P2Y12 inhibitor 2-methylthioadenosine 5'-monophosphate triethylammonium salt hydrate (2-MeSAMP). Forty-four clinical and 30 platelet function parameters were analyzed. Patients were categorized as aspirin or clopidogrel poor responder (PR) according to cutoff levels of each test. Blood type A was significantly associated with myocardial infarction (MI) history [odds ratio (OR)=2.50, 95% confidence interval (CI)=1.37-4.58, P=0.003], higher baseline troponin T and creatine kinase-MB (CK-MB) index, post-PCI CK-MB index, and platelet reactivity index (PRI), and being PR against 2-MeSAMP (OR=5.75, 95% CI=1.51-21.90, P=0.010). Blood type O was associated with higher arachidonic acid-induced platelet aggregation and negatively associated with MI history (OR=0.47, 95% CI=0.26-0.84, P=0.010), PRI and being PR against clopidogrel (OR=0.54, 95% CI=0.30-0.99, P=0.043) and 2-MeSAMP (OR=0.16, 95% CI=0.03-0.76, P=0.021). Blood type A was found as a risk factor for MI. Higher arachidonic acid-induced aggregation in group O and higher PRI in group A against aspirin and P2Y12 inhibitor treatment, respectively, may suggest alternative antiplatelet therapies for PRs with these blood types.	Recurrent somatic mutations in SF3B1 have been identified in patients with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and are associated with ring sideroblasts (RS) and relatively favorable clinical outcomes. The 2016 World Health Organization classification categorizes patients with ≥ 5% RS and SF3B1 mutation as MDS-RS, in contrast to its prior MDS-RS classification (≥ 15% RS, no genotyping data). Treatment responses in MDS patients with mutated SF3B1 are not well described. Patients with MDS and known SF3B1 mutational status were identified from MDS Clinical Research Consortium institutions and grouped when possible as 5% to 15% or ≥ 15% RS. Patients with wild-type versus mutated SF3B1 were matched 2:1 to analyze treatment response. Of 471 patients identified, 16% showed SF3B1 mutation. More patients with mutated SF3B1 were lower-risk MDS. We found that 50% were RS-positive compared to 19% of wild-type patients (P &lt; .001). Having the mutation was associated with better overall survival (hazard ratio = 0.48, P = .001) and longer leukemia-free survival (hazard ratio = 0.5, P &lt; .005). Patients with RS and the mutation had the best outcome. Regarding treatment response, 14 (35%) of 40 erythroid-stimulating agent-treated patients with mutation experienced response versus 9 (16%) of 56 wild-type patients (P = .032), with no differences in response to hypomethylating agents or lenalidomide. SF3B1 mutations in MDS are commonly associated with RS and show better outcomes, with mutated/positive RS presence being significantly better than isolated RS or presence of mutation or neither. Patients with mutation showed better responses to an erythroid-stimulating agent. A new categorization incorporating SF3B1 mutation status, regardless of RS percentage, shows clinical value.	Prior transcriptional studies of atrial fibrillation (AF) have been limited to specific transcripts, animal models, chronic AF, right atria, or small samples. We sought to characterize the left atrial transcriptome in human AF to distinguish changes related to AF susceptibility and persistence. Left atrial appendages from 239 patients stratified by coronary artery disease, valve disease, and AF history (no history of AF, AF history in sinus rhythm at surgery, and AF history in AF at surgery) were selected for genome-wide mRNA microarray profiling. Transcripts were examined for differential expression with AF phenotype group. Enrichment in differentially expressed genes was examined in 3 gene set collections: a transcription factor collection, defined by shared conserved cis-regulatory motifs, a miRNA collection, defined by shared 3' untranslated region motifs, and a molecular function collection, defined by shared Gene Ontology molecular function. AF susceptibility was associated with decreased expression of the targets of CREB/ATF family, heat-shock factor 1, ATF6, SRF, and E2F1 transcription factors. Persistent AF activity was associated with decreased expression in genes and gene sets related to ion channel function consistent with reported functional changes. AF susceptibility was associated with decreased expression of targets of several transcription factors related to inflammation, oxidation, and cellular stress responses. In contrast, changes in ion channel expression were associated with AF activity but were limited in AF susceptibility. Our results suggest that significant transcriptional remodeling marks susceptibility to AF, whereas remodeling of ion channel expression occurs later in the progression or as a consequence of AF.	Atrial Fibrillation (AF), the most common sustained arrhythmia, has a strong genetic component, but the mechanism by which common genetic variants lead to increased AF susceptibility is unknown. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified that the single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) most strongly associated with AF are located on chromosome 4q25 in an intergenic region distal to the PITX2 gene. Our objective was to determine whether the AF-associated SNPs on chromosome 4q25 were associated with PITX2c expression in adult human left atrial appendages. Analysis of a lone AF GWAS identified four independent AF risk SNPs at chromosome 4q25. Human adult left atrial appendage tissue was obtained from 239 subjects of European Ancestry and used for SNP analysis of genomic DNA and determination of PITX2c RNA expression levels by quantitative PCR. Subjects were divided into three groups based on their history of AF and pre-operative rhythm. AF rhythm subjects had higher PITX2c expression than those with history of AF but in sinus rhythm. PITX2c expression was not associated with the AF risk SNPs in human adult left atrial appendages in all subjects combined or in each of the three subgroups. However, we identified seven SNPs modestly associated with PITX2c expression located in the introns of the ENPEP gene, ∼54 kb proximal to PITX2. PITX2c expression in human adult left atrial appendages is not associated with the chromosome 4q25 AF risk SNPs; thus, the mechanism by which these SNPs are associated with AF remains enigmatic. 	Perturbation in iron homeostasis is a hallmark of some hematologic diseases. Abnormal sideroblasts with accumulation of iron in the mitochondria are named ring sideroblasts (RS). RS is a cardinal feature of refractory anemia with RS (RARS) and RARS with marked thrombocytosis (RARS/-T). Mutations in SF3B1, a member of the RNA splicing machinery are frequent in RARS/-T and defects of this gene were linked to RS formation. Here we showcase the differences in iron architecture of SF3B1-mutant and wild-type (WT) RARS/-T and provide new mechanistic insights by which SF3B1 mutations lead to differences in iron. We found higher iron levels in SF3B1 mutant vs WT RARS/-T by transmission electron microscopy/spectroscopy/flow cytometry. SF3B1 mutations led to increased iron without changing the valence as shown by the presence of Fe(2+) in mutant and WT. Reactive oxygen species and DNA damage were not increased in SF3B1-mutant patients. RNA-sequencing and Reverse transcriptase PCR showed higher expression of a specific isoform of SLC25A37 in SF3B1-mutant patients, a crucial importer of Fe(2+) into the mitochondria. Our studies suggest that SF3B1 mutations contribute to cellular iron overload in RARS/-T by deregulating SLC25A37. 	Perspectives on whether the functions of MAS, a G protein-coupled receptor, are beneficial or deleterious in the heart remain controversial. MAS gene knockout reduces coronary vasodilatation leading to ischemic injury. G protein signaling activated by MAS has been implicated in progression of adaptive cardiac hypertrophy to heart failure and fibrosis. In the present study, we observed increased expression of MAS, connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) and collagen genes in failing (HF) human heart samples when compared to non-failing (NF). Expression levels of MAS are correlated with CTGF in HF and NF leading to our hypothesis that MAS controls CTGF production and the ensuing expression of collagen genes. In support of this hypothesis we show that the non-peptide MAS agonist AR234960 increases both mRNA and protein levels of CTGF via ERK1/2 signaling in HEK293-MAS cells and adult human cardiac fibroblasts. MAS-mediated CTGF expression can be specifically blocked by MAS inverse agonist AR244555 and also by MEK1 inhibition. Expression of CTGF gene was essential for MAS-mediated up-regulation of different collagen subtype genes in HEK293-MAS cells and human cardiac fibroblasts. Knockdown of CTGF by RNAi disrupted collagen gene regulation by the MAS-agonist. Our data indicate that CTGF mediates the profibrotic effects of MAS in cardiac fibroblasts. Blocking MAS-CTGF-collagen pathway should be considered for pharmacological intervention for HF.
Beck, Gerry	Quantitative Health Sciences	24646858	27233381	27774730	28301073	29064128	25349205	27716149	28741050	29621747	30071516	Current guidelines recommend under 2 g/day sodium intake in chronic kidney disease, but there are a few studies relating sodium intake to long-term outcomes. Here we evaluated the association of mean baseline 24-h urinary sodium excretion with kidney failure and a composite outcome of kidney failure or all-cause mortality using Cox regression in 840 participants enrolled in the Modification of Diet in Renal Disease Study. Mean 24-h urinary sodium excretion was 3.46 g/day. Kidney failure developed in 617 participants, and the composite outcome was reached in 723. In the primary analyses, there was no association between 24-h urine sodium and kidney failure (HR 0.99 (95% CI 0.91-1.08)) nor on the composite outcome (HR 1.01 (95% CI 0.93-1.09)), each per 1 g/day higher urine sodium. In exploratory analyses, there was a significant interaction of baseline proteinuria and sodium excretion with kidney failure. Using a two-slope model, when urine sodium was under 3 g/day, higher urine sodium was associated with increased risk of kidney failure in those with baseline proteinuria under 1 g/day and with lower risk of kidney failure in those with baseline proteinuria of ⩾ 1 g/day. There was no association between urine sodium and kidney failure when urine sodium was ⩾ 3 g/day. Results were consistent using first baseline and time-dependent urinary sodium excretion. Thus, we noted no association of urine sodium with kidney failure. Results of the exploratory analyses need to be verified in additional studies and the mechanism explored.	Low urine potassium excretion, as a surrogate for dietary potassium intake, is associated with higher risk for hypertension and cardiovascular disease in a general population. Few studies have investigated the relationship of urine potassium with clinical outcomes in chronic kidney disease (CKD). Longitudinal cohort study. The MDRD (Modification of Diet in Renal Disease) Study was a randomized controlled trial (N = 840) conducted in 1989 to 1993 to examine the effects of blood pressure control and dietary protein restriction on kidney disease progression in adults aged 18 to 70 years with CKD stages 2 to 4. This post hoc analysis included 812 participants. The primary predictor variable was 24-hour urine potassium excretion, measured at baseline and at multiple time points (presented as time-updated average urine potassium excretion). Kidney failure, defined as initiation of dialysis therapy or transplantation, was determined from US Renal Data System data. All-cause mortality was assessed using the National Death Index. Median follow-up for kidney failure was 6.1 (IQR, 3.5-11.7) years, with 9 events/100 patient-years. Median all-cause mortality follow-up was 19.2 (IQR, 10.8-20.6) years, with 3 deaths/100 patient-years. Baseline mean urine potassium excretion was 2.39±0.89 (SD) g/d. Each 1-SD higher baseline urine potassium level was associated with an adjusted HR of 0.95 (95% CI, 0.87-1.04) for kidney failure and 0.83 (95% CI, 0.74-0.94) for all-cause mortality. Results were consistent using time-updated average urine potassium measurements. Analyses were performed using urine potassium excretion as a surrogate for dietary potassium intake. Results are obtained from a primarily young, nondiabetic, and advanced CKD population and may not be generalizable to the general CKD population. Higher urine potassium excretion was associated with lower risk for all-cause mortality, but not kidney failure.	End-stage renal disease is associated with elevations in circulating prolactin concentrations, but the association of prolactin concentrations with intermediate health outcomes and the effects of hemodialysis frequency on changes in serum prolactin have not been examined. The FHN Daily and Nocturnal Dialysis Trials compared the effects of conventional thrice weekly hemodialysis with in-center daily hemodialysis (6 days/week) and nocturnal home hemodialysis (6 nights/week) over 12 months and obtained measures of health-related quality of life, self-reported physical function, mental health and cognition. Serum prolactin concentrations were measured at baseline and 12-month follow-up in 70% of the FHN Trial cohort to examine the associations among serum prolactin concentrations and physical, mental and cognitive function and the effects of hemodialysis frequency on serum prolactin. Among 177 Daily Trial and 60 Nocturnal Trial participants with baseline serum prolactin measurements, the median serum prolactin concentration was 65 ng/mL (25th-75th percentile 48-195 ng/mL) and 81% had serum prolactin concentrations &gt;30 ng/mL. While serum prolactin was associated with sex (higher in women), we observed no association between baseline serum prolactin and age, dialysis vintage, and baseline measures of physical, mental and cognitive function. Furthermore, there was no significant effect of hemodialysis frequency on serum prolactin in either of the two trials. Serum prolactin concentrations were elevated in the large majority of patients with ESRD, but were not associated with several measures of health status. Circulating prolactin levels also do not appear to decrease in response to more frequent hemodialysis over a one-year period.	End-stage renal disease (ESRD) is associated with perturbations in thyroid hormone concentrations and an increased prevalence of hypothyroidism. Few studies have examined the effects of hemodialysis dose or frequency on endogenous thyroid function. Within the Frequent Hemodialysis Network (FHN) trials, we examined the prevalence of hypothyroidism in patients with ESRD. Among those with endogenous thyroid function (without overt hyper/hypothyroidism or thyroid hormone supplementation), we examined the association of thyroid hormone concentration with multiple parameters of self-reported health status, and physical and cognitive performance, and the effects of hemodialysis frequency on serum thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), free thyroxine (FT4), and free tri-iodothyronine (FT3) levels. Conventional thrice-weekly hemodialysis was compared to in-center (6 d/wk) hemodialysis (Daily Trial) and Nocturnal (6 nights/wk) home hemodialysis (Nocturnal Trial) over 12 months. Among 226 FHN Trial participants, the prevalence of hypothyroidism was 11% based on thyroid hormone treatment and/or serum TSH ≥8 mIU/mL. Among the remaining 195 participants (147 Daily, 48 Nocturnal) with endogenous thyroid function, TSH concentrations were modestly (directly) correlated with age (r = 0.16, P = 0.03) but not dialysis vintage. Circulating thyroid hormone levels were not associated with parameters of health status or physical and cognitive performance. Furthermore, frequent in-center and nocturnal hemodialysis did not significantly change (baseline to month 12) TSH, FT4, or FT3 concentrations in patients with endogenous thyroid function. Among patients receiving hemodialysis without overt hyper/hypothyroidism or thyroid hormone treatment, thyroid indices were not associated with multiple measures of health status and were not significantly altered with increased dialysis frequency.	Correction of metabolic acidosis in patients with chronic kidney disease has been associated with improvement in thyroid function. We examined whether changes in bicarbonate were associated with changes in thyroid function in patients with end-stage renal disease receiving conventional or more frequent haemodialysis. In the Frequent Hemodialysis Network Trials, the relationship between changes in serum bicarbonate, free triiodothyronine (FT3) and free thyroxine (FT4) was examined among 147 and 48 patients with endogenous thyroid function who received conventional (3×/week) or more frequent (6×/week) haemodialysis (Daily Trial) or who received conventional or more frequent nocturnal haemodialysis (Nocturnal Trial). Equilibrated normalized protein catabolic rate (enPCR) was examined to account for nutritional factors affecting both acid load and thyroid function. Increasing dialysis frequency was associated with increased bicarbonate level. Baseline bicarbonate level was not associated with baseline FT3 and FT4. Change in bicarbonate level was not associated with changes in FT3 and FT4 in the Daily Trial nor for FT4 in the Nocturnal Trial (r ≤ 0.14, P &gt; 0.21). While, a significant correlation between change in serum bicarbonate and change in FT3 (r = 0.44, P = 0.02) was observed in the Nocturnal Trial; findings were no longer significant after adjusting for change in enPCR (r = 0.37, P = 0.08). For participants with baseline bicarbonate &lt;23 mmol/L, no association between change in bicarbonate and change in thyroid indices were seen in the Daily Trial; for the Nocturnal Trial, findings were also not significant for change in FT3 and the association between change in bicarbonate and change in FT4 (r = 0.54, P = 0.03) was no longer significant after adjusting for enPCR (r = 0.45, P = 0.11). Changes in bicarbonate were not associated with changes in thyroid hormone levels after adjusting for enPCR, as a marker of nutritional status. Future studies should examine whether improvement in acid base status improves thyroid function in haemodialysis patients with evidence of thyroid hypofunction.	Reduced GFR in patients with CKD causes systemic accumulation of uremic toxins, which has been correlated with disease progression and increased morbidity. The orally administered spherical carbon adsorbent AST-120 reduces systemic toxin absorption through gastrointestinal sequestration, which may slow disease progression in these patients. The multinational, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Evaluating Prevention of Progression in CKD (EPPIC)-1 and EPPIC-2 trials evaluated the effects of AST-120 on the progression of CKD when added to standard therapy. We randomly assigned 2035 adults with moderate to severe disease (serum creatinine at screening, 2.0-5.0 mg/dl for men and 1.5-5.0 mg/dl for women) to receive either placebo or AST-120 (9 g/d). The primary end point was a composite of dialysis initiation, kidney transplantation, and serum creatinine doubling. Each trial continued until accrual of 291 primary end points. The time to primary end point was similar between the AST-120 and the placebo groups in both trials (EPPIC-1: hazard ratio, 1.03; 95% confidence interval, 0.84 to 1.27; P=0.78) (EPPIC-2: hazard ratio, 0.91; 95% confidence interval, 0.74 to 1.12; P=0.37); a pooled analysis of both trials showed similar results. The estimated median time to primary end points for the placebo groups was 124 weeks for power calculations, but actual times were 189.0 and 170.3 weeks for EPPIC-1 and EPPIC-2, respectively. Thus, disease progression was more gradual than expected in the trial populations. In conclusion, the benefit of adding AST-120 to standard therapy in patients with moderate to severe CKD is not supported by these data. 	The orally administered spherical carbon adsorbent AST-120 is used on-label in Asian countries to slow renal disease progression in patients with progressive chronic kidney disease (CKD). Recently, two multinational, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 3 trials (Evaluating Prevention of Progression in Chronic Kidney Disease [EPPIC] trials) examined AST-120's efficacy in slowing CKD progression. This study assessed the efficacy of AST-120 in the subgroup of patients from the United States of America (USA) in the EPPIC trials. In the EPPIC trials, 2035 patients with moderate to severe CKD were studied, of which 583 were from the USA. The patients were randomly assigned to two groups of equal size that were treated with AST-120 or placebo (9 g/day). The primary end point was a composite of dialysis initiation, kidney transplantation, or serum creatinine doubling. The Kaplan-Meier curve for the time to achieve the primary end point in the placebo-treated patients from the USA was similar to that projected before the study. The per protocol subgroup analysis of the population from the USA which included patients with compliance rates of ≥67 % revealed a significant difference between the treatment groups in the time to achieve the primary end point (Hazard Ratio, 0.74; 95 % Confidence Interval, 0.56-0.97). This post hoc subgroup analysis of EPPIC study data suggests that treatment with AST-120 might delay the time to primary end point in CKD patients from the USA. A further randomized controlled trial in progressive CKD patients in the USA is necessary to confirm the beneficial effect of adding AST-120 to standard therapy regimens. ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00500682 ; NCT00501046 .	Two randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials (EPPIC-1 and EPPIC-2) investigated the efficacy and safety of AST-120, an oral spherical carbon adsorbent, in adults with chronic kidney disease (CKD). While the benefit of adding AST-120 to standard therapy was not supported by these trials, we performed a post hoc analysis to focus on CKD progression and to determine the risk factors for the primary endpoint in the EPPIC trial population. In the EPPIC trials, patients were randomly assigned 1:1 to treatment with AST-120 or placebo. The primary endpoint was a composite of dialysis initiation, kidney transplantation, or doubling of serum creatinine. The EPPIC trial pooled population was evaluated with the same statistical methods used for analysis of the primary and secondary efficacy endpoints. The trials were registered on ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT00500682 [EPPIC-1] and NCT00501046 [EPPIC-2]). An analysis of the placebo population suggested baseline urinary protein to urinary creatinine ratio (UP/UCr) ≥1.0 and hematuria were independent risk factors for event occurrence and eGFR lowering. Analysis of the high risk patients revealed a difference in the primary endpoint occurrence between treatment groups, if angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and/or angiotensin receptor blockers were administered (hazard ratio 0.74, 95% confidence interval 0.56-0.96). Also, the eGFR changes from baseline in the AST-120 group were smaller than that in the placebo group (P = 0.035). CKD progression may have an association with baseline UP/UCr and hematuria. Treatment with AST-120 may delay the time to the primary endpoint in patients with progressive CKD receiving standard therapy, thus warranting further investigation.	Regression of left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) is feasible with more frequent hemodialysis (HD). We aimed to ascertain pathways associated with regression of left ventricular mass (LVM) in patients enrolled in the Frequent HD Network (FHN) trials. This was a post hoc observational cohort study. We hypothesized LVH regression with frequent HD was associated with a different cardiovascular biomarker profile. Regressors were defined as patients who achieved a reduction of more than 10% in LVM at 12 months. Progressors were defined as patients who had a minimum of 10% increase in LVM at 12 months. Among 332 randomized patients, 243 had biomarker data available. Of these, 121 patients did not progress or regress, 77 were regressors, and 45 were progressors. Mean LVM change differed between regressors and progressors by -65.6 (-74.0 to -57.2) g, p &lt; 0.001. Regressors had a median (interquartile range) increase in dialysis frequency (from 3.0 [3.0-3.0] to 4.9 [3-5.7] per week, p = 0.001) and reductions in pre-dialysis systolic (from 149.0 [136.0-162.0] to 136.0 [123.0-152.0] mm Hg, p &lt; 0.001) and diastolic (from 83.0 [71.0-91.0] to 76.0 [68.0-84.0] mm Hg, p &lt; 0.001) blood pressures. Klotho levels increased in regressors versus progressors (76.9 [10.5-143.3] pg/mL, p = 0.024). Tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinase (TIMP)-2 levels fell in regressors compared to progressors (-7,853 [-14,653 to -1,052] pg/mL, p = 0.024). TIMP-1 and log (brain natriuretic -peptide [BNP]) levels also tended to fall in regressors. Changes in LVM correlated inversely with changes in klotho (r = -0.24, p = 0.014). -Conclusions: Markers of collagen turnover and changes in klotho levels are potential novel pathways associated with regression of LVH in the dialysis population, which will require further prospective validation.	The arteriovenous fistula (AVF) is the preferred vascular access for hemodialysis. However, approximately half of AVFs fail to mature. The use of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE-Is), angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), and calcium channel blockers (CCBs) exerts favorable endothelial effects and may promote AVF maturation. We tested associations of ACE-I and ARBs, CCBs, beta-blockers, and diuretics with the maturation of newly created AVFs. We evaluated 602 participants from the Hemodialysis Fistula Maturation Study, a multi-center, prospective cohort study of AVF maturation. We ascertained the use of each medication class within 45 days of AVF creation surgery. We defined maturation outcomes by clinical use within 9 months of surgery or 4 weeks of initiating hemodialysis. Unassisted AVF maturation failure without intervention occurred in 54.0% of participants, and overall AVF maturation failure (with or without intervention) occurred in 30.1%. After covariate adjustment, CCB use was associated with a 25% lower risk of overall AVF maturation failure (95% CI 3%-41% lower) but a non-significant 10% lower risk of unassisted maturation failure (95% CI 23% lower to 5% higher). ACE-I/ARB, beta-blocker, and diuretic use was not significantly associated with AVF maturation outcomes. None of the antihypertensive medication classes were associated with changes in AVF diameter or blood flow over 6 weeks following surgery. CCB use may be associated with a lower risk of overall AVF maturation failure. Further studies are needed to determine whether CCBs might play a causal role in improving AVF maturation outcomes.
Bekris, Lynn	Genomic Medicine Institute	30779703	29685286	29371683	29253717	28934645	28033507	25808939	25711455	24011543	23892237	NA	Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been genetically and pathologically associated with neuroinflammation. Triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2) is a microglial receptor involved in innate immunity. TREM2 rare protein coding genetic variants have been linked to AD. A soluble TREM2 (sTREM2) cleavage product is elevated in AD. It is unclear whether there is a relationship between elevated sTREM2 and markers of inflammation. The hypothesis of this investigation was that central and peripheral inflammation play a role in sTREM2 levels in AD. A consistent association of peripheral or central markers of inflammation and CSF sTREM2 levels was not found, suggesting a limited impact of general inflammation on sTREM2 levels. An association between peripheral sTREM2 levels and CSF sTREM2, as well as an association between CSF sTREM2 and a marker of blood brain barrier integrity, was observed in AD, suggesting a potential role of peripheral TREM2 in central TREM2 biology.	The apolipoprotein E (APOE) ε4 allele is the major genetic risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Multiple regulatory elements, spanning the extended TOMM40-APOE-APOC2 region, regulate gene expression at this locus. Regulatory element DNA methylation changes occur under different environmental conditions, such as disease. Our group and others have described an APOE CpG island as hypomethylated in AD, compared to cognitively normal controls. However, little is known about methylation of the larger TOMM40-APOE-APOC2 region. The hypothesis of this investigation was that regulatory element methylation levels of the larger TOMM40-APOE-APOC2 region are associated with AD. The aim was to determine whether DNA methylation of the TOMM40-APOE-APOC2 region differs in AD compared to cognitively normal controls in post-mortem brain and peripheral blood. DNA was extracted from human brain (n = 12) and peripheral blood (n = 67). A methylation array was used for this analysis. Percent methylation within the TOMM40-APOE-APOC2 region was evaluated for differences according to tissue type, disease state, AD-related biomarkers, and gene expression. Results from this exploratory analysis suggest that regulatory element methylation levels within the larger TOMM40-APOE-APOC2 gene region correlate with AD-related biomarkers and TOMM40 or APOE gene expression in AD.	Recent reports in Alzheimer's disease (AD) research suggest that alterations in microRNA (miRNA) expression are associated with disease pathology. Our previous studies suggest that A Disintegrin and Metalloproteinase 10 (ADAM10) expression is important in AD and could be modulated by an extended regulatory region that includes the 3' untranslated region. In this study, we have investigated the role of trans-acting factors in ADAM10 gene regulation. Our study shows that miRNA-140-5p has enhanced expression in the AD postmortem brain hippocampus using high-throughput miRNA arrays and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Interestingly, we have also seen that miRNA-140-5p seed sequence is present on 3' untranslated region of both ADAM10 and its transcription factor SOX2. The specific interaction of miRNA-140-5p with both ADAM10 and SOX2 signifies high regulatory importance of this miRNA in controlling ADAM10 expression. Thus, this investigation unravels mechanisms underlying ADAM10 downregulation by miR-140-5p and suggests that dysfunctional regulation of ADAM10 expression is exacerbated by AD-related neurotoxic effects. These findings underscore the importance of understanding the impact of trans-acting factors in the modulation of AD pathophysiology.	Graphene was successfully employed as a catalyst for the activation of sodium persulfate, towards the effective degradation of propylparaben, an emerging micro-pollutant, representative of the parabens family. A novel process is proposed which utilizes a commercial graphene nano-powder as the catalyst and sodium persulfate as the oxidizing agent. It was found that over 95% of micro-pollutant degradation occurs within 15 min of reaction time. The effects of catalyst loading (75 mg/L to 1 g/L), sodium persulfate (SPS) concentration (10 mg/L to 1 g/L), initial solution pH (3-9) and initial paraben concentration (0.5 mg/L to 5 mg/L) were examined. Experiments were carried out in different aqueous conditions, including ultrapure water, bottled water and wastewater in order to investigate their effect on the degradation rate. The efficiency of the process was lower at complex water matrices signifying the role of organic matter as scavenger of the oxidant species. The role of radical scavengers was also investigated through the addition of methanol and tert-butanol in several concentrations, which was found to be important only in relatively high values. An experiment in which propylparaben was substituted by methylparaben was conducted and similar results were obtained. The consumption of SPS was found to be high in all pH conditions tested, surpassing 80% in near neutral environment. However, the results indicate that the sulfate radicals formed react with water in alkaline conditions, which are the optimal for the reaction, producing hydroxyl radicals which appear to be the dominant species leading to the rapid degradation of propylparaben. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first time pristine graphene has been implemented as an activator of sodium persulfate for the effective oxidation of micro-pollutants.	Neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), composed of hyperphosphorylated tau, are a key pathologic feature of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Tau phosphorylation is under the control of multiple kinases and phosphatases, including Fyn. Previously, our group found an association between 2 regulatory single nucleotide polymorphisms in the FYN gene with increased tau levels in the cerebrospinal fluid. In this study, we hypothesized that Fyn expression in the brain is influenced by AD status and genetic content. We found that Fyn protein, but not messenger RNA, levels were increased in AD patients compared to cognitively normal controls and are associated with regulatory region single nucleotide polymorphisms. In addition, the expression of the FYN 3'UTR can decrease expression in multiple cell lines, suggesting this regulatory region plays an important role in FYN expression. Taken together, these data suggest that FYN expression is regulated according to AD status and regulatory region haplotype, and genetic variants may be instrumental in the development of neurofibrillary tangles in AD and other tauopathies.	Of recent interest is the finding that certain cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers traditionally linked to Alzheimer's disease (AD), specifically amyloid beta protein (Aβ), are abnormal in PD CSF. The aim of this exploratory investigation was to determine whether genetic variation within the amyloid precursor protein (APP) processing pathway genes correlates with CSF Aβ42 levels in Parkinson's disease (PD). Parkinson's disease (n = 86) and control (n = 161) DNA were genotyped for 19 regulatory region tagging single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) within nine genes (APP, ADAM10, BACE1, BACE2, PSEN1, PSEN2, PEN2, NCSTN, and APH1B) involved in the cleavage of APP. The SNP genotypes were tested for their association with CSF biomarkers and PD risk while adjusting for age, sex, and APOE ɛ4 status. Significant correlation with CSF Aβ42 levels in PD was observed for two SNPs, (APP rs466448 and APH1B rs2068143). Conversely, significant correlation with CSF Aβ42 levels in controls was observed for three SNPs (APP rs214484, rs2040273, and PSEN1 rs362344). In addition, results of this exploratory investigation suggest that an APP SNP and an APH1B SNP are marginally associated with PD CSF Aβ42 levels in APOE ɛ4 noncarriers. Further hypotheses generated include that decreased CSF Aβ42 levels are in part driven by genetic variation in APP processing genes. Additional investigation into the relationship between these findings and clinical characteristics of PD, including cognitive impairment, compared with other neurodegenerative diseases, such as AD, are warranted. © 2015 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia. Currently, a clinical diagnosis of AD is based on evidence of both cognitive and functional decline. Progression is monitored by detailed clinical evaluations over many months to years. It is increasingly clear that to advance disease-modifying therapies for AD, patients must be identified and treated early, before obvious cognitive and functional changes. In addition, better methods are needed to sensitively monitor progression of disease and therapeutic efficacy. Therefore, considerable research has focused on characterizing biomarkers that can identify the disease early as well as accurately monitor disease progression. miRNA offer a unique opportunity for biomarker development. Here, we review research focused on characterizing miRNA as potential biomarkers and as a treatment for disease.	Low cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) Aβ(42) levels correlate with increased brain Aβ deposition in Alzheimer's disease (AD), which suggests a disruption in the degradation and clearance of Aβ from the brain. In addition, APOE ε4 carriers have lower CSF Aβ(42) levels than non-carriers. The hypothesis of this investigation was that CSF Aβ(42) levels would correlate with regulatory region variation in genes that are biologically associated with degradation or clearance of Aβ from the brain. CSF Aβ(42) levels were tested for associations with Aβ degradation and clearance genes and APOE ε4. Twenty-four SNPs located within the 5' and 3' regions of 12 genes were analyzed. The study sample consisted of 99 AD patients and 168 cognitively normal control subjects. CSF Aβ(42) levels were associated with APOE ε4 status in controls but not in AD patients; A2M regulatory region SNPs were also associated with CSF Aβ(42) levels in controls but not in AD patients, even after adjusting for APOE ε4. These results suggest that genetic variation within the A2M gene influences CSF Aβ(42) levels.	The human apolipoprotein E (APOE) gene plays an important role in lipid metabolism. It has three common genetic variants, alleles ε2/ε3/ε4, which translate into three protein isoforms of apoE2, E3 and E4. These isoforms can differentially influence total serum cholesterol levels; therefore, APOE has been linked with cardiovascular disease. Additionally, its ε4 allele is strongly associated with the risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD), whereas the ε2 allele appears to have a modest protective effect for AD. Despite decades of research having illuminated multiple functional differences among the three apoE isoforms, the precise mechanisms through which different APOE alleles modify diseases risk remain incompletely understood. In this study, we examined the genomic structure of APOE in search for properties that may contribute novel biological consequences to the risk of disease. We identify one such element in the ε2/ε3/ε4 allele-carrying 3'-exon of APOE. We show that this exon is imbedded in a well-defined CpG island (CGI) that is highly methylated in the human postmortem brain. We demonstrate that this APOE CGI exhibits transcriptional enhancer/silencer activity. We provide evidence that this APOE CGI differentially modulates expression of genes at the APOE locus in a cell type-, DNA methylation- and ε2/ε3/ε4 allele-specific manner. These findings implicate a novel functional role for a 3'-exon CGI and support a modified mechanism of action for APOE in disease risk, involving not only the protein isoforms but also an epigenetically regulated transcriptional program at the APOE locus driven by the APOE CGI. 
Bergmann, Cornelia	Neurosciences	30619363	30333176	30222502	29942315	29690885	29491163	28931676	28495370	28108025	27658544	The central nervous system (CNS) is vulnerable to several viral infections including herpes viruses, arboviruses and HIV to name a few. While a rapid and effective immune response is essential to limit viral spread and mortality, this anti-viral response needs to be tightly regulated in order to limit immune mediated tissue damage. This balance between effective virus control with limited pathology is especially important due to the highly specialized functions and limited regenerative capacity of neurons, which can be targets of direct virus cytolysis or bystander damage. CNS infection with the neurotropic strain of mouse hepatitis virus (MHV) induces an acute encephalomyelitis associated with focal areas of demyelination, which is sustained during viral persistence. Both innate and adaptive immune cells work in coordination to control virus replication. While type I interferons are essential to limit virus spread associated with early mortality, perforin, and interferon-γ promote further virus clearance in astrocytes/microglia and oligodendrocytes, respectively. Effective control of virus replication is nonetheless associated with tissue damage, characterized by demyelinating lesions. Interestingly, the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 limits expansion of tissue lesions during chronic infection without affecting viral persistence. Thus, effective coordination of pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines is essential during MHV induced encephalomyelitis in order to protect the host against viral infection at a limited cost.	Humoral responses within the central nervous system (CNS) are common to many neurotropic viral infections, with antibody (Ab)-secreting cells (ASC) contributing to local protection. However, a role for virus-specific memory B cells (Bmem) within the CNS is poorly explored due to lack of robust phenotypic or functional identification in mice. This study takes advantage of the progeny of mice expressing tamoxifen-inducible Cre recombinase (Cre-ERT2) under the Aicda promoter crossed with Rosa26-loxP-tdTomato reporter mice (AID<sup>Cre</sup>-Rosa26<sup>tdTomato</sup>) to monitor B cells having undergone activation-induced cytidine deaminase (AID)-mediated somatic hypermutation (SHM) following neurotropic coronavirus infection. AID detection via tdTomato expression allowed tracking of virus-specific ASC and Bmem in priming and effector sites throughout infection. In draining lymph nodes, tdTomato-positive (tdTomato<sup>+</sup>) ASC were most prevalent prior to germinal center (GC) formation, but total tdTomato<sup>+</sup> B cells only peaked with robust GC formation at day 14 p.i. Moreover, their proportion of Bmem dominated over the proportion of ASC throughout infection. In the CNS, tdTomato<sup>+</sup> cells started emerging at day 14 p.i. While they initially comprised mainly Bmem, the proportions of ASC and Bmem became similar as tdTomato<sup>+</sup> B cells increased throughout viral persistence. Delayed tamoxifen treatment demonstrated ongoing CNS recruitment of tdTomato<sup>+</sup> B cells, mainly ASC, primed late during GC reactions. Overall, the data support the idea that virus-induced B cells exhibiting SHM require peripheral GC formation to emerge in the CNS. Ongoing GC reactions and regional signals further regulate dynamics within the CNS, with preferential maintenance of tdTomato<sup>+</sup> B cells in spinal cords relative to that in brains during viral persistence.IMPORTANCE The prevalence and role of antigen-specific Bmem in the CNS during viral encephalomyelitis is largely undefined. A lack of reliable markers identifying murine Bmem has made it difficult to assess their contribution to local antiviral protection via antigen presentation or conversion to ASC. Using reporter mice infected with neurotropic coronavirus to track virus-specific Bmem and ASC, this report demonstrates that both subsets only emerge in the CNS following peripheral GC formation and subsequently prevail. While early GC reactions supported preferential Bmem accumulation in the CNS, late GC reactions favored ASC accumulation, although Bmem outnumbered ASC in draining lymph nodes throughout infection. Importantly, virus-specific B cells undergoing sustained GC selection were continually recruited to the persistently infected CNS. Elucidating the factors governing temporal events within GCs, as well as regional CNS cues during viral persistence, will aid intervention to modulate CNS humoral responses in the context of infection and associated autoimmune pathologies.	A variety of viruses can induce central nervous system (CNS) infections and neurological diseases, although the incidence is rare. Similar to peripheral infections, IFNα/β induction and signaling constitutes a first line of defense to limit virus dissemination. However, CNS-resident cells differ widely in their repertoire and magnitude of both basal and inducible components in the IFNα/β pathway. While microglia as resident myeloid cells have been implicated as prominent sentinels of CNS invading pathogens or insults, astrocytes are emerging as key responders to many neurotropic RNA virus infections. Focusing on RNA viruses, this review discusses the role of astrocytes as IFNα/β inducers and responders and touches on the role of IFNα/β receptor signaling in regulating myeloid cell activation and IFNγ responsiveness. A summary picture emerges implicating IFNα/β not only as key in establishing the classical &quot;antiviral&quot; state, but also orchestrating cell mobility and IFNγ-mediated effector functions.	Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory disease of the central nervous system (CNS) characterized by demyelination and axonal loss. Demyelinating lesions are associated with infiltrating T lymphocytes, bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDM), and activated resident microglia. Tissue damage is thought to be mediated by T cell produced cytokines and chemokines, which activate microglia and/or BMDM to both strip myelin and produce toxic factors, ultimately damaging axons and promoting disability. However, the relative contributions of BMDM and microglia to demyelinating pathology are unclear, as their identification in MS tissue is difficult due to similar morphology and indistinguishable surface markers when activated. The CD4 T cell-induced autoimmune murine model of MS, experimental autoimmune encephalitis (EAE), in which BMDM are essential for demyelination, has revealed pathogenic and repair-promoting phenotypes associated with BMDM and microglia, respectively. Using a murine model of demyelination induced by a gliatropic coronavirus, in which BMDM are redundant for demyelination, we herein characterize gene expression profiles of BMDM versus microglia associated with demyelination. While gene expression in CNS infiltrating BMDM was upregulated early following infection and subsequently sustained, microglia expressed a more dynamic gene profile with extensive mRNA upregulation coinciding with peak demyelination after viral control. This delayed microglia response comprised a highly pro-inflammatory and phagocytic profile. Furthermore, while BMDM exhibited a mixed phenotype of M1 and M2 markers, microglia repressed the vast majority of M2-markers. Overall, these data support a pro-inflammatory and pathogenic role of microglia temporally remote from viral control, whereas BMDM retained their gene expression profile independent of the changing environment. As demyelination is caused by multifactorial insults, our results highlight the plasticity of microglia in responding to distinct inflammatory settings, which may be relevant for MS pathogenesis.	Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) is associated with several neurodegenerative disorders including multiple sclerosis (MS). Although TNF-targeted therapies have been largely unsuccessful in MS, recent preclinical data suggests selective soluble TNF inhibition can promote remyelination. This has renewed interest in regulation of TNF signaling in demyelinating disease, especially given the limited treatment options for progressive MS. Using a mouse model of progressive MS, this study evaluates the effects of sustained TNF on oligodendrocyte (OLG) apoptosis and OLG precursor cell (OPC) differentiation. Induction of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in transgenic mice expressing a dominant-negative interferon-γ receptor under the human glial fibrillary acidic protein promoter (GFAPγR1Δ) causes severe non-remitting disease associated with sustained TNF. Therapeutic effects in GFAPγR1Δ mice treated with anti-TNF compared to control antibody during acute EAE were evaluated by assessing demyelinating lesion size, remyelination, OLG apoptosis, and OPC differentiation. More severe and enlarged demyelinating lesions in GFAPγR1Δ compared to wild-type (WT) mice were associated with increased OLG apoptosis and reduced differentiated CC1<sup>+</sup>Olig2<sup>+</sup> OLG within lesions, as well as impaired upregulation of TNF receptor-2, suggesting impaired OPC differentiation. TNF blockade during acute EAE in GFAPγR1Δ both limited OLG apoptosis and enhanced OPC differentiation consistent with reduced lesion size and clinical recovery. TNF neutralization further limited increasing endothelin-1 (ET-1) expression in astrocytes and myeloid cells noted in lesions during disease progression in GFAPγR1Δ mice, supporting inhibitory effects of ET-1 on OPC maturation. Our data implicate that IFNγ signaling to astrocytes is essential to limit a detrimental positive feedback loop of TNF and ET-1 production, which increases OLG apoptosis and impairs OPC differentiation. Interference of this cycle by TNF blockade promotes repair independent of TNFR2 and supports selective TNF targeting to mitigate progressive forms of MS.	The contribution of distinct central nervous system (CNS) resident cells to protective alpha/beta interferon (IFN-α/β) function following viral infections is poorly understood. Based on numerous immune regulatory functions of astrocytes, we evaluated the contribution of astrocyte IFN-α/β signaling toward protection against the nonlethal glia- and neuronotropic mouse hepatitis virus (MHV) strain A59. Analysis of gene expression associated with IFN-α/β function, e.g., pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) and interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs), revealed lower basal mRNA levels in brain-derived astrocytes than in microglia. Although astrocytes poorly induced Ifnβ mRNA following infection, they upregulated various mRNAs in the IFN-α/β pathway to a higher extent than microglia, supporting effective IFN-α/β responsiveness. Ablation of the IFN-α/β receptor (IFNAR) in astrocytes using mGFAPcre IFNAR<sup>fl/fl</sup> mice resulted in severe encephalomyelitis and mortality, coincident with uncontrolled virus replication. Further, virus spread was not restricted to astrocytes but also affected microglia and neurons, despite increased and sustained Ifnα/β and ISG mRNA levels within the CNS. IFN-γ, a crucial mediator for MHV control, was not impaired in infected mGFAPcre IFNAR<sup>fl/fl</sup> mice despite reduced T cell CNS infiltration. Unexpectedly however, poor induction of IFN-γ-dependent major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II expression on microglia supported that defective IFN-γ signaling contributes to uncontrolled virus replication. A link between sustained elevated IFN-α/β and impaired responsiveness to IFN-γ supports the novel concept that temporally limited early IFN-α/β responses are critical for effective antiviral IFN-γ function. Overall, our results imply that IFN-α/β signaling in astrocytes is not only critical in limiting early CNS viral spread but also promotes protective antiviral IFN-γ function.IMPORTANCE An antiviral state established by IFN-α/β contains initial viral spread as adaptive immunity develops. While it is apparent that the CNS lacks professional IFN-α/β producers and that resident cells have distinct abilities to elicit innate IFN-α/β responses, protective interactions between inducer and responder cells require further investigation. Infection with a glia- and neuronotropic coronavirus demonstrates that astrocytes mount a delayed but more robust response to infection than microglia, despite their lower basal mRNA levels of IFN-α/β-inducing components. Lethal, uncontrolled viral dissemination following ablation of astrocyte IFN-α/β signaling revealed the importance of IFN-α/β responses in a single cell type for protection. Sustained global IFN-α/β expression associated with uncontrolled virus did not suffice to protect neurons and further impaired responsiveness to protective IFN-γ. The results support astrocytes as critical contributors to innate immunity and the concept that limited IFN-α/β responses are critical for effective subsequent antiviral IFN-γ function.	B cell subsets with phenotypes characteristic of naive, non-isotype-switched, memory (Bmem) cells and antibody-secreting cells (ASC) accumulate in various models of central nervous system (CNS) inflammation, including viral encephalomyelitis. During neurotropic coronavirus JHMV infection, infiltration of protective ASC occurs after T cell-mediated viral control and is preceded by accumulation of non-isotype-switched IgD<sup>+</sup> and IgM<sup>+</sup> B cells. However, the contribution of peripheral activation events in cervical lymph nodes (CLN) to driving humoral immune responses in the infected CNS is poorly defined. CD19, a signaling component of the B cell receptor complex, is one of multiple regulators driving B cell differentiation and germinal center (GC) formation by lowering the threshold of antigen-driven activation. JHMV-infected CD19<sup>-/-</sup> mice were thus used to determine how CD19 affects CNS recruitment of B cell subsets. Early polyclonal ASC expansion, GC formation, and virus-specific ASC were all significantly impaired in CLN of CD19<sup>-/-</sup> mice compared to wild-type (WT) mice, consistent with lower and unsustained virus-specific serum antibody (Ab). ASC were also significantly reduced in the CNS, resulting in increased infectious virus during persistence. Nevertheless, CD19 deficiency did not affect early CNS IgD<sup>+</sup> B cell accumulation. The results support the notion that CD19-independent factors drive early B cell mobilization and recruitment to the infected CNS, while delayed accumulation of virus-specific, isotype-switched ASC requires CD19-dependent GC formation in CLN. CD19 is thus essential for both sustained serum Ab and protective local Ab within the CNS following JHMV encephalomyelitis.IMPORTANCE CD19 activation is known to promote GC formation and to sustain serum Ab responses following antigen immunization and viral infections. However, the contribution of CD19 in the context of CNS infections has not been evaluated. This study demonstrates that antiviral protective ASC in the CNS are dependent on CD19 activation and peripheral GC formation, while accumulation of early-recruited IgD<sup>+</sup> B cells is CD19 independent. This indicates that IgD<sup>+</sup> B cells commonly found early in the CNS do not give rise to local ASC differentiation and that only antigen-primed, peripheral GC-derived ASC infiltrate the CNS, thereby limiting potentially harmful nonspecific Ab secretion. Expanding our understanding of activation signals driving CNS migration of distinct B cell subsets during neuroinflammatory insults is critical for preventing and managing acute encephalitic infections, as well as preempting reactivation of persistent viruses during immune-suppressive therapies targeting B cells in multiple sclerosis (MS), such as rituximab and ocrelizumab.	CNS inflammation resulting from infection, injury, or neurodegeneration leads to accumulation of diverse B cell subsets. Although antibody secreting cells (ASC) within the inflamed CNS have been extensively examined, memory B cell (Bmem) characterization has been limited as they do not secrete antibody without stimulation. Moreover, unlike human Bmem, reliable surface markers for murine Bmem remain elusive. Using a viral encephalomyelitis model we developed a modified limiting dilution in vitro stimulation assay to convert CNS-derived virus specific Bmem into ASC. Stimulation methods established for lymphoid tissue cells using prolonged stimulation with viral lysate resulted in substantial ASC loss and minimal Bmem to ASC conversion of CNS-derived cells. By varying stimulation duration, TLR activators, and culture supplements, we achieved optimal conversion by culturing cells with TLR7/8 agonist R848 in the presence of feeder cells for 2days. Flow cytometry markers CD38 and CD73 characterizing murine Bmem from lymphoid tissue showed more diverse expression patterns on corresponding CNS-derived B cell subsets. Using the optimized TLR7/8 stimulation protocol, we compared virus-specific IgG Bmem versus pre-existing ASC within the brain and spinal cord. Increasing Bmem frequencies during chronic infection mirrored kinetics of ASC. However, despite initially similar Bmem and ASC accumulation, Bmem prevailed in the brain, but were lower than ASC in the spinal cord during persistence. Simultaneous enumeration of antigen-specific Bmem and ASC using the Bmem assay optimized for CNS-derived cells enables characterization of temporal changes during microbial or auto-antigen induced neuroinflammation.	Genetic and environmental factors, i.e. infections, have been proposed to contribute to disease induction and relapsing events in multiple sclerosis (MS), an autoimmune demyelinating disease of the central nervous system (CNS). While research has mainly focused on virus associated autoimmune activation, less is known about prevention of autoimmunity, especially following resolving infections associated with CNS tissue damage. This review discusses novel insights on control of self-reactive (SR) T cells activated during neurotropic coronavirus-induced demyelination. A new concept is introduced that SR T cells can be dampened by distinct regulatory mechanisms in the periphery and the CNS, thereby preventing autoimmune disease.	Central nervous system (CNS) inflammation associated with viral infection and autoimmune disease results in the accumulation of B cells in various differentiation stages. However, the contribution between peripheral and CNS activation remains unclear. During gliatropic coronavirus induced encephalomyelitis, accumulation of protective antibody secreting cells is preceded by infiltration of B cells with a naïve and early differentiation phenotype (Phares et al., 2014). Investigation of the temporal dynamics of B cell activation in draining cervical lymph nodes (CLN) and the CNS revealed that peak CNS infiltration of early activated, unswitched IgD<sup>+</sup> and IgM<sup>+</sup> B cells coincided with polyclonal activation in CLN. By contrast, isotype-switched IgG<sup>+</sup> B cells did not accumulate until peripheral germinal center formation. In the CNS, unswitched B cells were confined to the perivascular space and meninges, with only rare B cell clusters, while isotype-switched B cells localized to parenchymal areas. Although ectopic follicle formation was not observed, more differentiated B cell subsets within the CNS expressed the germinal center marker GL7, albeit at lower levels than CLN counterparts. During chronic infection, CNS IgD<sup>int</sup> and IgD<sup>-</sup> B cell subsets further displayed sustained markers of proliferation and CD4 T cell help, which were only transiently expressed in the CLN. A contribution of local CD4 T cell help to sustain B cell activation was supported by occasional B cells adjacent to T cells. The results suggest that accumulation of differentiated B cell subsets within the CNS is largely dictated by peripheral activation, but that local events contribute to their sustained activation independent of ectopic follicle formation.
Berkner, Kathleen	Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences	31009158	29592891	22536908	22516721	21896484	20978134	18717596	17073445	16634640	16061481	Essentials A carboxylase mutation that impairs splicing to delete exon 2 sequences was previously reported. We found that the mutant was inactive for vitamin K-dependent (VKD) protein carboxylation. An incomplete splicing defect likely accounts for VKD clotting activity observed in the patient. The results indicate the importance of proper carboxylase embedment in the membrane for function. Mutations in the γ-glutamyl carboxylase (GGCX), which is required for vitamin K-dependent (VKD) protein activation, can result in vitamin K clotting factor deficiency (VKCFD1). A recent report described a VKCFD1 patient with a homozygous carboxylase mutation that altered splicing and deleted exon 2 (Δ2GGCX). Only Δ2GGCX RNA was observed in the patient. Loss of exon 2 results in the deletion of carboxylase sequences thought to be important for membrane topology and consequent function. Carboxylase activity is required for life, and we therefore tested whether the Δ2GGCX mutant is active. HEK 293 cells were edited by the use of CRISPR-Cas9 to eliminate endogenous carboxylase. Recombinant wild-type GGCX and recombinant Δ2GGCX were then expressed and tested for carboxylation of the VKD protein factor IX. A second approach was used to monitor carboxylation biochemically, using recombinant carboxylases expressed in insect cells that lack endogenous carboxylase. Δ2GGCX activity was undetectable in both assays, which is strikingly different from the low levels of carboxylase activity observed with other VKCFD1 mutants. The similarity in clotting function between patients with Δ2GGCX and these mutations must therefore arise from a novel mechanism. Low levels of properly spliced carboxylase RNA that produce full-length protein would not have been observed in the previous study. The results suggest that the splicing defect is incomplete. Δ2GGCX RNA has been detected in normal human liver, and has been designated carboxylase isoform 2; however, Δ2GGCX protein was not observed in normal human liver. The lack of activity and protein expression suggest that isoform 2 is not physiologically relevant to normal VKD protein carboxylation.	The anticoagulant warfarin inhibits the vitamin K oxidoreductase (VKORC1), which generates vitamin K hydroquinone (KH2) required for the carboxylation and consequent activation of vitamin K-dependent (VKD) proteins. VKORC1 produces KH2 in 2 reactions: reduction of vitamin K epoxide (KO) to quinone (K), and then KH2 Our dissection of full reduction vs the individual reactions revealed a surprising mechanism of warfarin inhibition. Warfarin inhibition of KO to K reduction and carboxylation that requires full reduction were compared in wild-type VKORC1 or mutants (Y139H, Y139F) that cause warfarin resistance. Carboxylation was much more strongly inhibited (∼400-fold) than KO reduction (two- to threefold). The K to KH2 reaction was analyzed using low K concentrations that result from inhibition of KO to K. Carboxylation that required only K to KH2 reduction was inhibited much less than observed with the KO substrate that requires full VKORC1 reduction (eg, 2.5-fold vs 70-fold, respectively, in cells expressing wild-type VKORC1 and factor IX). The results indicate that warfarin uncouples the 2 reactions that fully reduce KO. Uncoupling was revealed because a second activity, a warfarin-resistant quinone reductase, was not present. In contrast, 293 cells expressing factor IX and this reductase activity showed much less inhibition of carboxylation. This activity therefore appears to cooperate with VKORC1 to accomplish full KO reduction. Cooperation during warfarin therapy would have significant consequences, as VKD proteins function in numerous physiologies in many tissues, but may be poorly carboxylated and dysfunctional if the second activity is not ubiquitously expressed similar to VKORC1.	γ-Carboxylated Glu (Gla) is a post-translational modification required for the activity of vitamin K-dependent (VKD) proteins that has been difficult to study by mass spectrometry due to the properties of this negatively charged residue. Gla is generated by a single enzyme, the γ-glutamyl carboxylase, which has broad biological impact because VKD proteins have diverse functions that include hemostasis, apoptosis, and growth control. The carboxylase also contains Glas, of unknown function, and is an integral membrane protein with poor sequence coverage. To locate these Glas, we first established methods that resulted in high coverage (92%) of uncarboxylated carboxylase. Subsequent analysis of carboxylated carboxylase identified a Gla peptide (729-758) and a missing region (625-647) that was detected in uncarboxylated carboxylase. We therefore developed an approach to methylate Gla, which efficiently neutralized Gla and improved mass spectrometric analysis. Methylation eliminated CO2 loss from Gla, increased the ionization of Gla-containing peptide, and appeared to facilitate trypsin digestion. Methylation of a carboxylated carboxylase tryptic digest identified Glas in the 625-647 peptide. These studies provide valuable information for testing the function of carboxylase carboxylation. The methylation approach for studying Gla by mass spectrometry is an important advance that will be broadly applicable to analyzing other VKD proteins.	The vitamin K-dependent carboxylase uses vitamin K oxygenation to drive carboxylation of multiple glutamates in vitamin K-dependent proteins, rendering them active in a variety of physiologies. Multiple carboxylations of proteins are required for their activity, and the carboxylase is processive, so that premature dissociation of proteins from the carboxylase does not occur. The carboxylase is unique, with no known homology to other enzyme families, and structural determinations have not been made, rendering an understanding of catalysis elusive. Although a model explaining the relationship of oxygenation to carboxylation had been developed, until recently almost nothing was known of the function of the carboxylase itself in catalysis. In the past decade, discovery and analysis of naturally occurring carboxylase mutants has led to identification of functionally relevant residues and domains. Further, identification of nonmammalian carboxylase orthologs has provided a basis for bioinformatic analysis to identify candidates for critical functional residues. Biochemical analysis of rationally chosen carboxylase mutants has led to breakthroughs in understanding vitamin K oxygenation, glutamate carboxylation, and maintenance of processivity by the carboxylase. Protein carboxylation has also been assessed in vivo, and the intracellular environment strongly affects carboxylase function. The carboxylase is an integral membrane protein, and topological analysis, coupled with biochemical determinations, suggests that interaction of the carboxylase with the membrane is an important facet of function. Carboxylase homologs, likely acquired by horizontal transfer, have been discovered in some bacteria, and functional analysis of these homologs has the potential to lead to the discovery of new roles of vitamin K in biology.	The γ-glutamyl carboxylase converts Glu to carboxylated Glu (Gla) to activate a large number of vitamin K-dependent proteins with diverse functions, and this broad physiological impact makes it critical to understand the mechanism of carboxylation. Gla formation is thought to occur in two independent steps (i.e. Glu deprotonation to form a carbanion that then reacts with CO(2)), based on previous studies showing unresponsiveness of Glu deprotonation to CO(2). However, our recent studies on the kinetic properties of a variant enzyme (H160A) showing impaired Glu deprotonation prompted a reevaluation of this model. Glu deprotonation monitored by tritium release from the glutamyl γ-carbon was dependent upon CO(2), and a proportional increase in both tritium release and Gla formation occurred over a range of CO(2) concentrations. This discrepancy with the earlier studies using microsomes is probably due to the known accessibility of microsomal carboxylase to water, which reprotonates the carbanion. In contrast, tritium incorporation experiments with purified carboxylase showed very little carbanion reprotonation and consequently revealed the dependence of Glu deprotonation on CO(2). Cyanide stimulated Glu deprotonation and carbanion reprotonation to the same extent in wild type enzyme but not in the H160A variant. Glu deprotonation that depends upon CO(2) but that also occurs when water or cyanide are present strongly suggests a concerted mechanism facilitated by His-160 in which an electrophile accepts the negative charge on the developing carbanion. This revised mechanism provides important insight into how the carboxylase catalyzes the reaction by avoiding the formation of a high energy discrete carbanion.	The vitamin K oxidoreductase (VKOR) reduces vitamin K to support the carboxylation and consequent activation of vitamin K-dependent proteins, but the mechanism of reduction is poorly understood. VKOR is an integral membrane protein that reduces vitamin K using membrane-embedded thiols (Cys-132 and Cys-135), which become oxidized with concomitant VKOR inactivation. VKOR is subsequently reactivated by an unknown redox protein that is currently thought to act directly on the Cys132-Cys135 residues. However, VKOR contains evolutionarily conserved Cys residues (Cys-43 and Cys-51) that reside in a loop outside of the membrane, raising the question of whether they mediate electron transfer from a redox protein to Cys-132/Cys-135. To assess a possible role, the activities of mutants with Ala substituted for Cys (C43A and C51A) were analyzed in intact membranes using reductants that were either membrane-permeable or -impermeable. Both reductants resulted in wild type VKOR reduction of vitamin K epoxide; however, the C43A and C51A mutants only showed activity with the membrane-permeant reductant. We obtained similar results when testing the ability of wild type and mutant VKORs to support carboxylation, using intact membranes from cells coexpressing VKOR and carboxylase. These results indicate a role for Cys-43 and Cys-51 in catalysis, suggesting a relay mechanism in which a redox protein transfers electrons to these loop residues, which in turn reduce the membrane-embedded Cys132-Cys135 disulfide bond to activate VKOR. The results have implications for the mechanism of warfarin resistance, the topology of VKOR in the membrane, and the interaction of VKOR with the carboxylase.	Vitamin K-dependent (VKD) proteins become activated by the VKD carboxylase, which converts Glu's to carboxylated Glu's (Gla's) in their Gla domains. The carboxylase uses vitamin K epoxidation to drive Glu carboxylation, and the two half-reactions are coupled in 1:1 stoichiometry by an unknown mechanism. We now report the first identification of a residue, His160, required for coupling. A H160A mutant showed wild-type levels of epoxidation but substantially less carboxylation. Monitoring proton abstraction using a peptide with Glu tritiated at the gamma-carbon position revealed that poor coupling was due to impaired carbanion formation. H160A showed a 10-fold lower ratio of tritium release to vitamin K epoxidation than wild-type enzyme (i.e., 0.12 versus 1.14, respectively), which could fully account for the fold decrease in coupling efficiency. The Ala substitution in His160 did not affect the K m for vitamin K and caused only a 2-fold increase in the K m for Glu and 2-fold decrease in the activation of vitamin K epoxidation by Glu. The H160A K m for CO 2 was 5-fold higher than the wild-type enzyme. However, the k cat for H160A carboxylation was 8-9-fold lower than the wild-type enzyme with all three substrates (i.e., Glu, CO 2, and vitamin K), suggesting a catalytic role for His160 in carbanion formation. We propose that His160 facilitates the formation of the transition state for carbanion formation. His160 is highly conserved in metazoan VKD carboxylases but not in some bacterial orthologues (acquired by horizontal gene transfer), which has implications for how bacteria have adapted the carboxylase for novel functions.	The vitamin K-dependent (VKD) carboxylase converts Glu's to carboxylated Glu's in VKD proteins to render them functional in a broad range of physiologies. The carboxylase uses vitamin K hydroquinone (KH(2)) epoxidation to drive Glu carboxylation, and one of its critical roles is to provide a catalytic base that deprotonates KH(2) to allow epoxidation. A long-standing model invoked Cys as the catalytic base but was ruled out by activity retention in a mutant where every Cys is substituted by Ala. Inhibitor analysis of the cysteine-less mutant suggested that the base is an activated amine [Rishavy et al. (2004) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 101, 13732-13737], and in the present study, we used an evolutionary approach to identify candidate amines, which revealed His160, His287, His381, and Lys218. When mutational analysis was performed using an expression system lacking endogenous carboxylase, the His to Ala mutants all showed full epoxidase activity but K218A activity was not detectable. The addition of exogenous amines restored K218A activity while having little effect on wild type carboxylase, and pH studies indicated that rescue was dependent upon the basic form of the amine. Importantly, Brønsted analysis that measured the effect of amines with different pK(a) values showed that K218A activity rescue depended upon the basicity of the amine. The combined results provide strong evidence that Lys218 is the essential base that deprotonates KH(2) to initiate the reaction. The identification of this base is an important advance in defining the carboxylase active site and has implications regarding carboxylase membrane topology and the feedback mechanism by which the Glu substrate regulates KH(2) oxygenation.	Carboxylation of vitamin K-dependent (VKD) proteins is required for their activity and depends on reduced vitamin K generated by vitamin K oxidoreductase (VKOR) and a redox protein that regenerates VKOR activity. VKD protein carboxylation is inefficient in mammalian cells, and to understand why carboxylation becomes saturated, we developed an approach that directly measures the extent of intracellular VKD protein carboxylation. Analysis of factor IX (fIX)-expressing BHK cells indicated that slow egress of fIX from the endoplasmic reticulum and preferential secretion of the carboxylated form contribute to secreted fIX being more fully carboxylated. The analysis also revealed the first reported in vivo VKD protein turnover, which was 14-fold faster than that which occurs in vitro, suggesting facilitation of this process in vivo. r-VKORC1 expression increased the rate of fIX carboxylation and the extent of secreted carboxylated fIX approximately 2-fold, which shows that carboxylation is the rate-limiting step in fIX turnover and which was surprising because turnover in vitro is limited by release of carboxylated fIX. Interestingly, the increases were significantly smaller than the amount of VKOR overexpression (15-fold). However, when cell extracts were tested in single-turnover experiments in vitro, where redox protein is functionally substituted with dithiothreitol, VKOR overexpression increased the fIX carboxylation rate 14-fold, showing r-VKORC1 is functional for supporting fIX carboxylation. These data indicate that the effect of VKOR overexpression is limited in vivo, possibly because a carboxylation component like the redox protein becomes saturated or because another step is now rate-limiting. The studies illustrate the complexity of carboxylation and potential importance of component stoichiometry to overall efficiency.	Leptospirosis is an emerging infectious disease whose pathology includes a hemorrhagic response, and sequencing of the Leptospira interrogans genome revealed an ortholog of the vitamin K-dependent (VKD) carboxylase as one of several hemostatic proteins present in the bacterium. Until now, the VKD carboxylase was known to be present only in the animal kingdom (i.e. metazoans that include mammals, fish, snails, and insects), and this restricted distribution and high sequence similarity between metazoan and Leptospira orthologs strongly suggests that Leptospira acquired the VKD carboxylase by horizontal gene transfer. In metazoans, the VKD carboxylase is bifunctional, acting as an epoxidase that oxygenates vitamin K to a strong base and a carboxylase that uses the base to carboxylate Glu residues in VKD proteins, rendering them active in hemostasis and other physiologies. In contrast, the Leptospira ortholog showed epoxidase but not detectable carboxylase activity and divergence in a region of identity in all known metazoan VKD carboxylases that is important to Glu interaction. Furthermore, although the mammalian carboxylase is regulated so that vitamin K epoxidation does not occur unless Glu substrate is present, the Leptospira VKD epoxidase showed unfettered epoxidation in the absence of Glu substrate. Finally, human VKD protein orthologs were not detected in the L. interrogans genome. The combined data, then, suggest that Leptospira exapted the metazoan VKD carboxylase for some use other than VKD protein carboxylation, such as using the strong vitamin K base to drive a new reaction or to promote oxidative damage or depleting vitamin K to indirectly inhibit host VKD protein carboxylation.
Blankenberg, Daniel	Genomic Medicine Institute	29790989	29688462	25655493	25001293	24743989	24585771	21775304	21531983	20562416	20069535	Galaxy (homepage: https://galaxyproject.org, main public server: https://usegalaxy.org) is a web-based scientific analysis platform used by tens of thousands of scientists across the world to analyze large biomedical datasets such as those found in genomics, proteomics, metabolomics and imaging. Started in 2005, Galaxy continues to focus on three key challenges of data-driven biomedical science: making analyses accessible to all researchers, ensuring analyses are completely reproducible, and making it simple to communicate analyses so that they can be reused and extended. During the last two years, the Galaxy team and the open-source community around Galaxy have made substantial improvements to Galaxy's core framework, user interface, tools, and training materials. Framework and user interface improvements now enable Galaxy to be used for analyzing tens of thousands of datasets, and &gt;5500 tools are now available from the Galaxy ToolShed. The Galaxy community has led an effort to create numerous high-quality tutorials focused on common types of genomic analyses. The Galaxy developer and user communities continue to grow and be integral to Galaxy's development. The number of Galaxy public servers, developers contributing to the Galaxy framework and its tools, and users of the main Galaxy server have all increased substantially.	Research in population genetics and evolutionary biology has always provided a computational backbone for life sciences as a whole. Today evolutionary and population biology reasoning are essential for interpretation of large complex datasets that are characteristic of all domains of today's life sciences ranging from cancer biology to microbial ecology. This situation makes algorithms and software tools developed by our community more important than ever before. This means that we, developers of software tool for molecular evolutionary analyses, now have a shared responsibility to make these tools accessible using modern technological developments as well as provide adequate documentation and training.	The availability of high-throughput sequencing has created enormous possibilities for scientific discovery. However, the massive amount of data being generated has resulted in a severe informatics bottleneck. A large number of tools exist for analyzing next-generation sequencing (NGS) data, yet often there remains a disconnect between these research tools and the ability of many researchers to use them. As a consequence, several online resources and communities have been developed to assist researchers with both the management and the analysis of sequencing data sets. Here we describe the use and applications of common file formats for coding and storing genomic data, consider several web-accessible open-source resources for the visualization and analysis of NGS data, and provide examples of typical analyses with links to further detailed exercises. 	The proliferation of web-based integrative analysis frameworks has enabled users to perform complex analyses directly through the web. Unfortunately, it also revoked the freedom to easily select the most appropriate tools. To address this, we have developed Galaxy ToolShed. 	The extraordinary throughput of next-generation sequencing (NGS) technology is outpacing our ability to analyze and interpret the data. This chapter will focus on practical informatics methods, strategies, and software tools for transforming NGS data into usable information through the use of a web-based platform, Galaxy. The Galaxy interface is explored through several different types of example analyses. Instructions for running one's own Galaxy server on local hardware or on cloud computing resources are provided. Installing new tools into a personal Galaxy instance is also demonstrated. 	The Galaxy platform has developed into a fully featured collaborative workbench, with goals of inherently capturing provenance to enable reproducible data analysis, and of making it straightforward to run one's own server. However, many Galaxy platform tools rely on the presence of reference data, such as alignment indexes, to function efficiently. Until now, the building of this cache of data for Galaxy has been an error-prone manual process lacking reproducibility and provenance. The Galaxy Data Manager framework is an enhancement that changes the management of Galaxy's built-in data cache from a manual procedure to an automated graphical user interface (GUI) driven process, which contains the same openness, reproducibility and provenance that is afforded to Galaxy's analysis tools. Data Manager tools allow the Galaxy administrator to download, create and install additional datasets for any type of reference data in real time. The Galaxy Data Manager framework is implemented in Python and has been integrated as part of the core Galaxy platform. Individual Data Manager tools can be defined locally or installed from a ToolShed, allowing the Galaxy community to define additional Data Manager tools as needed, with full versioning and dependency support.	Here we describe a set of tools implemented within the Galaxy platform designed to make analysis of multiple genome alignments truly accessible for biologists. These tools are available through both a web-based graphical user interface and a command-line interface. This open-source toolset was implemented in Python and has been integrated into the online data analysis platform Galaxy (public web access: http://usegalaxy.org; download: http://getgalaxy.org). Additional help is available as a live supplement from http://usegalaxy.org/u/dan/p/maf. james.taylor@emory.edu; anton@bx.psu.edu Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics online.	Recent technological advances have lead to the ability to generate large amounts of data for model and non-model organisms. Whereas, in the past, there have been a relatively small number of central repositories that serve genomic data, an increasing number of distinct specialized data repositories and resources have been established. Here, we describe a generic approach that provides for the integration of a diverse spectrum of data resources into a unified analysis framework, Galaxy (http://usegalaxy.org). This approach allows the simplified coupling of external data resources with the data analysis tools available to Galaxy users, while leveraging the native data mining facilities of the external data resources. DATABASE URL: http://usegalaxy.org.	Here, we describe a tool suite that functions on all of the commonly known FASTQ format variants and provides a pipeline for manipulating next generation sequencing data taken from a sequencing machine all the way through the quality filtering steps. This open-source toolset was implemented in Python and has been integrated into the online data analysis platform Galaxy (public web access: http://usegalaxy.org; download: http://getgalaxy.org). Two short movies that highlight the functionality of tools described in this manuscript as well as results from testing components of this tool suite against a set of previously published files are available at http://usegalaxy.org/u/dan/p/fastq	High-throughput data production has revolutionized molecular biology. However, massive increases in data generation capacity require analysis approaches that are more sophisticated, and often very computationally intensive. Thus, making sense of high-throughput data requires informatics support. Galaxy (http://galaxyproject.org) is a software system that provides this support through a framework that gives experimentalists simple interfaces to powerful tools, while automatically managing the computational details. Galaxy is distributed both as a publicly available Web service, which provides tools for the analysis of genomic, comparative genomic, and functional genomic data, or a downloadable package that can be deployed in individual laboratories. Either way, it allows experimentalists without informatics or programming expertise to perform complex large-scale analysis with just a Web browser.
Bonilha, Vera	Ophthalmic Research	29721921	28088625	26215528	26202387	27747301	25491159	25265374	24664754	24090540	23844142	In the retina, oxidative stress can initiate a cascade of events that ultimately leads to a focal loss of RPE cells and photoreceptors, a major contributing factor in geographic atrophy. Despite these implications, the molecular regulation of RPE oxidative metabolism under physiological and pathological conditions remains largely unknown. DJ-1 functions as an antioxidant, redox-sensitive molecular chaperone, and transcription regulator, which protected cells from oxidative stress. Here we discuss our progress toward characterization of the DJ-1 function in the protection of RPE to oxidative stress.	Oxidative stress alters physiological function in most biological tissues and can lead to cell death. In the retina, oxidative stress initiates a cascade of events leading to focal loss of RPE and photoreceptors, which is thought to be a major contributing factor to geographic atrophy. Despite these implications, the molecular regulation of RPE oxidative stress under normal and pathological conditions remains largely unknown. A better understanding of the mechanisms involved in regulating RPE and photoreceptors oxidative stress response is greatly needed. To this end we evaluated photoreceptor and RPE changes in mice deficient in DJ-1, a protein that is thought to be important in protecting cells from oxidative stress. Young (3 months) and aged (18 months) DJ-1 knockout (DJ-1 KO) and age-matched wild-type mice were examined. In both group of aged mice, scanning laser ophthalmoscopy (SLO) showed the presence of a few autofluorescent foci. The 18 month-old DJ-1 KO retinas were also characterized by a noticeable increase in RPE fluorescence to wild-type. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) imaging demonstrated that all retinal layers were present in the eyes of both DJ-1 KO groups. ERG comparisons showed that older DJ-1 KO mice had reduced sensitivity under dark- and light-adapted conditions compared to age-matched control. Histologically, the RPE contained prominent vacuoles in young DJ-1 KO group with the appearance of enlarged irregularly shaped RPE cells in the older group. These were also evident in OCT and in whole mount RPE/choroid preparations labeled with phalloidin. Photoreceptors in the older DJ-1 KO mice displayed decreased immunoreactivity to rhodopsin and localized reduction in cone markers compared to the wild-type control group. Lower levels of activated Nrf2 were evident in retina/RPE lysates in both young and old DJ-1 KO mouse groups compared to wild-type control levels. Conversely, higher levels of protein carbonyl derivatives and iNOS immunoreactivity were detected in retina/RPE lysates from both young and old DJ-1 KO mice. These results demonstrate that DJ-1 KO mice display progressive signs of retinal/RPE degeneration in association with higher levels of oxidative stress markers. Collectively this analysis indicates that DJ-1 plays an important role in protecting photoreceptors and RPE from oxidative damage during aging.	DJ-1/PARK7 mutations or deletions cause autosomal recessive early onset Parkinson's disease (PD). Thus, DJ-1 protein has been extensively studied in brain and neurons. PD patients display visual symptoms; however, the visual symptoms specifically attributed to PD patients carrying DJ-1/PARK7 mutations are not known. In this study, we analyzed the structure and physiology of retinas of 3- and 6-month-old DJ-1 knockout (KO) mice to determine how loss of function of DJ-1 specifically contributes to the phenotypes observed in PD patients. As compared to controls, the DJ-1 KO mice displayed an increase in the amplitude of the scotopic ERG b-wave and cone ERG, while the amplitude of a subset of the dc-ERG components was decreased. The main structural changes in the DJ-1 KO retinas were found in the outer plexiform layer (OPL), photoreceptors and retinal pigment epithelium (RPE), which were observed at 3 months and progressively increased at 6 months. RPE thinning and structural changes within the OPL were observed in the retinas in DJ-1 KO mice. DJ-1 KO retinas also exhibited disorganized outer segments, central decrease in red/green cone opsin staining, decreased labeling of ezrin, broader distribution of ribeye labeling, decreased tyrosine hydroxylase in dopaminergic neurons, and increased 7,8-dihydro-8-oxoguanine-labeled DNA oxidation. Accelerated outer retinal atrophy was observed in DJ-1 KO mice after selective oxidative damage induced by a single tail vein injection of NaIO3, exposing increased susceptibility to oxidative stress. Our data indicate that DJ-1-deficient retinas exhibit signs of morphological abnormalities and physiological dysfunction in association with increased oxidative stress. Degeneration of RPE cells in association with oxidative stress is a key hallmark of age-related macular degeneration (AMD). Therefore, in addition to detailing the visual defects that occur as a result of the absence of DJ-1, our data is also relevant to AMD pathogenesis. 	To evaluate the histopathology in donor eyes from patients with autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa (ADRP) caused by p.P23H, p.P347T and p.P347L rhodopsin ( RHO ) gene mutations. Eyes from a 72-year-old male (donor 1), an 83-year-old female (donor 2), an 80-year-old female (donor 3), and three age-similar normal eyes were examined macroscopically, by scanning laser ophthalmoscopy and optical coherence tomography imaging. Perifoveal and peripheral pieces were processed for microscopy and immunocytochemistry with markers for photoreceptor cells. DNA analysis revealed RHO mutations c.68C&gt;A (p.P23H) in donor 1, c.1040C&gt;T (p.P347L) in donor 2 and c.1039C&gt;A (p.P347T) in donor 3. Histology of the ADRP eyes showed retinas with little evidence of stratified nuclear layers in the periphery and a prominent inner nuclear layer present in the perifoveal region in the p.P23H and p.P347T eyes, while it was severely atrophic in the p.P347L eye. The p.P23H and p.P347T mutations cause a profound loss of rods in both the periphery and perifovea, while the p.P347L mutation displays near complete absence of rods in both regions. All three rhodopsin mutations caused a profound loss of cones in the periphery. The p.P23H and p.P347T mutations led to the presence of highly disorganized cones in the perifovea. However, the p.P347L mutation led to near complete absence of cones also in the perifovea. Our results support clinical findings indicating that mutations affecting residue P347 develop more severe phenotypes than those affecting P23. Furthermore, our results indicate a more severe phenotype in the p.P347L retina as compared to the p.P347T retina.	To define the retinal pathology in a 3 year-old eye donor who died from complications of an undiagnosed genetic syndrome. Eyes were fixed and analyzed using macroscopic fundus photography (MF), confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscopy (cSLO) and spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT). Small areas from the perifovea and periphery were processed for histology and indirect immunofluorescence, using antibodies specific to retinal proteins such as rhodopsin, cone arrestin, RPE65 and others. Available medical records were also reviewed. With all three imaging modalities, the affected donor's eyes lacked the distinct morphological detail typically observed with these techniques in postmortem control eyes. MF images showed a &quot;photonegative effect&quot; due to a hypopigmented macula relative to a hyperpigmented retinal background. cSLO imaging demonstrated a weak autofuorescence signal that was largely devoid of the usual retinal structures compared to the control. SD-OCT suggested disorganization of the affected retina, absence of a photoreceptor layer, and degeneration of the choroid in the macular area. Histologic findings indicated a highly disorganized photoreceptor layer in the macula and periphery. The RPE layer displayed thinning in some regions of the periphery and decreased pigmentation in most areas. Rods and cones were significantly reduced in the affected retina but a few cones were detected in the perifovea. Centrin-2 labeling was mostly absent from the connecting cilium of the photoreceptor cells. Medical record review pointed to a possible clinical diagnosis of Joubert syndrome. The retinal degenerative findings, and absence of centrin-2 labeling are compatible with the expected retinal phenotype in patients with Joubert syndrome.	To evaluate the retinal histopathology in donor eyes from patients with autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa (arRP) caused by EYS mutations. Eyes from a 72-year-old female (donor 1, family 1), a 91-year-old female (donor 2, family 2), and her 97-year-old sister (donor 3, family 2) were evaluated with macroscopic, scanning laser ophthalmoscopy (SLO) and optical coherence tomography (OCT) imaging. Age-similar normal eyes and an eye donated by donor 1's asymptomatic mother (donor 4, family 1) were used as controls. The perifovea and peripheral retina were processed for microscopy and immunocytochemistry with markers for cone and rod photoreceptor cells. DNA analysis revealed EYS mutations c.2259 + 1G &gt; A and c.2620C &gt; T (p.Q874X) in family 1, and c.4350_4356del (p.I1451Pfs*3) and c.2739-?_3244 + ?del in family 2. Imaging studies revealed the presence of bone spicule pigment in arRP donor retinas. Histology of all three affected donor eyes showed very thin retinas with little evidence of stratified nuclear layers in the periphery. In contrast, the perifovea displayed a prominent inner nuclear layer. Immunocytochemistry analysis demonstrated advanced retinal degenerative changes in all eyes, with near-total absence of rod photoreceptors. In addition, we found that the perifoveal cones were more preserved in retinas from the donor with the midsize genomic rearrangement (c.4350_4356del (p.I1451Pfs*3) and c.2739-?_3244 + ?del) than in retinas from the donors with the truncating (c.2259 + 1G &gt; A and c.2620C &gt; T (p.Q874X) mutations. Advanced retinal degenerative changes with near-total absence of rods and preservation of some perifoveal cones are observed in arRP donor retinas with EYS mutations. 	The goal of this study was to define the histopathology of the retina in donor eyes from a patient with Stargardt disease (STGD1) due to compound mutations in the ABCA4 gene. Eyes were obtained from a 66-year-old female and fixed within 18 hours postmortem. The fundi of the posterior globes were evaluated with macroscopic, SLO and OCT imaging. The perifoveal and peripheral regions were processed for electron microscopy and immunocytochemistry using cell specific antibodies. Two age-similar normal eyes were used as controls. Prior ophthalmic examinations and genetic test results were also reviewed. All imaging modalities showed scattered bone spicules in the peripheral retina. Atrophy of the RPE was present around the optic nerve as evidenced by the absence of SLO autofluorescence. Histology analysis showed a severely degenerated fovea with little evidence of any retinal layering or remaining RPE. The fovea was severely degenerated, with little evidence of any retinal cell layer, including the RPE. In contrast, retinal nuclear layers were present in the periphery. The perifoveal region contained few cones labeled with cone-specific antibodies; some rhodopsin-labeled cells, reactive glia labeled with GFAP; and decreased autofluorescence of the RPE. The fovea was free of cone-specific labeling, contained a few disorganized rhodopsin-labeled cells and showed substantial GFAP labeling and no autofluorescent material in the retina. The periphery displayed stubby cells labeled with cone-specific antibodies, decreased rhodopsin-labeled cells, increased GFAP staining, and autofluorescent granules in the RPE. The histopathology of the retina in this patient with Stargardt disease displayed a highly degenerated fovea. In all retinal locations studied, cones were more severely affected than rods.	DJ-1 is a protein expressed in many tissues including the brain where it has been extensively studied due to its association with Parkinson's Disease (PD). DJ-1 was reported to function as an antioxidant, redox-sensitive molecular chaperone, and transcription regulator, which protected cells from oxidative stress by modifying signaling pathways that regulate cell survival. Here we discuss our progress toward characterization of the DJ-1 function in the protection of RPE to oxidative stress. 	The retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) constitutes a monolayer of cuboidal cells that interact apically with the interphotoreceptor matrix (IPM) and outer segments of the photoreceptor cells and basally with the subjacent Bruch's membrane. This highly polarized structure is maintained by the cytoskeleton of individual cells and their interactions at the basolateral junctional complexes that stabilize this epithelial structure. This RPE complex network of filaments, tubules and associated proteins is modeled by the cellular environment, the RPE intercellular interactions, and by its interactions with the extracellular matrix. This is a review of the key features of the RPE cytoskeleton in vivo and in vitro. 	DJ-1 is found in many tissues, including the brain, where it has been extensively studied due to its association with Parkinson's disease. DJ-1 functions as a redox-sensitive molecular chaperone and transcription regulator that robustly protects cells from oxidative stress. Retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cultures were treated with H2O2 for various times followed by biochemical and immunohistological analysis. Cells were transfected with adenoviruses carrying the full-length human DJ-1 cDNA and a mutant construct, which has the cysteine residues at amino acid 46, 53 and 106 mutated to serine (C to S) prior to stress experiments. DJ-1 localization, levels of expression and reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation were also analyzed in cells expressing exogenous DJ-1 under baseline and oxidative stress conditions. The presence of DJ-1 and oxidized DJ-1 was evaluated in human RPE total lysates. The distribution of DJ-1 was assessed in AMD and non-AMD cryosectionss and in isolated human Bruch's membrane (BM)/choroid from AMD eyes. DJ-1 in RPE cells under baseline conditions, displays a diffuse cytoplasmic and nuclear staining. After oxidative challenge, more DJ-1 was associated with mitochondria. Increasing concentrations of H2O2 resulted in a dose-dependent increase in DJ-1. Overexpression of DJ-1 but not the C to S mutant prior to exposure to oxidative stress led to significant decrease in the generation of ROS. DJ-1 and oxDJ-1 intensity of immunoreactivity was significantly higher in the RPE lysates from AMD eyes. More DJ-1 was localized to RPE cells from AMD donors with geographic atrophy and DJ-1 was also present in isolated human BM/choroid from AMD eyes. DJ-1 regulates RPE responses to oxidative stress. Most importantly, increased DJ-1 expression prior to oxidative stress leads to decreased generation of ROS, which will be relevant for future studies of AMD since oxidative stress is a known factor affecting this disease.
Brown, J. Mark	Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences	29307889	29172946	29074585	28636934	28389555	27941027	27396333	26729489	26218418	25930707	Although diet has long been known to contribute to the pathogenesis of cardiovascular disease (CVD), research over the past decade has revealed an unexpected interplay between nutrient intake, gut microbial metabolism and the host to modify the risk of developing CVD. Microbial-associated molecular patterns are sensed by host pattern recognition receptors and have been suggested to drive CVD pathogenesis. In addition, the host microbiota produces various metabolites, such as trimethylamine-N-oxide, short-chain fatty acids and secondary bile acids, that affect CVD pathogenesis. These recent advances support the notion that targeting the interactions between the host and microorganisms may hold promise for the prevention or treatment of CVD. In this Review, we summarize our current knowledge of the gut microbial mechanisms that drive CVD, with special emphasis on therapeutic interventions, and we highlight the need to establish causal links between microbial pathways and CVD pathogenesis.	The human body is an integrated circuit between microbial symbionts and our Homo sapien genome, which communicate bi-directionally to maintain homeostasis within the human meta-organism. There is now strong evidence that microbes resident in the human intestine can directly contribute to the pathogenesis of obesity and associated cardiometabolic disorders. In fact, gut microbes represent a filter of our greatest environmental exposure - the foods we consume. It is now clear that we each experience a given meal differently, based on our unique gut microbial communities. Biologically active gut microbe-derived metabolites, such as short chain fatty acids, secondary bile acids, and trimethylamine-N-oxide (TMAO), are now uniquely recognized as contributors to obesity and related cardiometabolic disorders. However, mechanistic insights into how microbe-derived metabolites promote obesity are largely unknown. Recent work has demonstrated that the meta-organismal production of the bacterial co-metabolite TMAO is linked to suppression of beiging of white adipose tissue in mice and humans. Furthermore, the TMAO pathway is becoming an increasingly attractive therapeutic target in obesity-associated diseases such as type 2 diabetes, kidney failure, and cardiovascular disease. In this commentary we discuss recent findings linking the TMAO pathway to obesity-associated disorders, and provide additional insights into potential mechanisms driving this microbe-host interaction.	Human genetic variants near the FADS (fatty acid desaturase) gene cluster (FADS1-2-3) are strongly associated with cardiometabolic traits including dyslipidemia, fatty liver, type 2 diabetes mellitus, and coronary artery disease. However, mechanisms underlying these genetic associations are unclear. Here, we specifically investigated the physiological role of the Δ-5 desaturase FADS1 in regulating diet-induced cardiometabolic phenotypes by treating hyperlipidemic LDLR (low-density lipoprotein receptor)-null mice with antisense oligonucleotides targeting the selective knockdown of Fads1. Fads1 knockdown resulted in striking reorganization of both ω-6 and ω-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid levels and their associated proinflammatory and proresolving lipid mediators in a highly diet-specific manner. Loss of Fads1 activity promoted hepatic inflammation and atherosclerosis, yet was associated with suppression of hepatic lipogenesis. Fads1 knockdown in isolated macrophages promoted classic M1 activation, whereas suppressing alternative M2 activation programs, and also altered systemic and tissue inflammatory responses in vivo. Finally, the ability of Fads1 to reciprocally regulate lipogenesis and inflammation may rely in part on its role as an effector of liver X receptor signaling. These results position Fads1 as an underappreciated regulator of inflammation initiation and resolution, and suggest that endogenously synthesized arachidonic acid and eicosapentaenoic acid are key determinates of inflammatory disease progression and liver X receptor signaling.	Emerging evidence suggests that microbes resident in the human intestine represent a key environmental factor contributing to obesity-associated disorders. Here, we demonstrate that the gut microbiota-initiated trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO)-generating pathway is linked to obesity and energy metabolism. In multiple clinical cohorts, systemic levels of TMAO were observed to strongly associate with type 2 diabetes. In addition, circulating TMAO levels were associated with obesity traits in the different inbred strains represented in the Hybrid Mouse Diversity Panel. Further, antisense oligonucleotide-mediated knockdown or genetic deletion of the TMAO-producing enzyme flavin-containing monooxygenase 3 (FMO3) conferred protection against obesity in mice. Complimentary mouse and human studies indicate a negative regulatory role for FMO3 in the beiging of white adipose tissue. Collectively, our studies reveal a link between the TMAO-producing enzyme FMO3 and obesity and the beiging of white adipose tissue.	Recent advances in metabolomic and genome mining approaches have uncovered a poorly understood metabolome that originates solely or in part from bacterial enzyme sources. Whether living on exposed surfaces or within our intestinal tract, our microbial inhabitants produce a remarkably diverse set of natural products and small molecule metabolites that can impact human health and disease. Highlighted here, the gut microbe-derived metabolite trimethylamine N-oxide has been causally linked to the development of cardiovascular diseases. Recent studies reveal drugging this pathway can inhibit atherosclerosis development in mice. Building on this example, we discuss challenges and untapped potential of targeting bacterial enzymology for improvements in human health.	Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is an enveloped RNA virus responsible for 170 million cases of viral hepatitis worldwide. Over 50% of chronically infected HCV patients develop hepatic steatosis, and steatosis can be induced by expression of HCV core protein (core) alone. Additionally, core must associate with cytoplasmic lipid droplets (LDs) for steatosis development and viral particle assembly. Due to the importance of the LD as a key component of hepatic lipid storage and as a platform for HCV particle assembly, it seems this dynamic subcellular organelle is a gatekeeper in the pathogenesis of viral hepatitis. Here, we hypothesized that core requires the host LD scaffold protein, perilipin (PLIN)3, to induce hepatic steatosis. To test our hypothesis in vivo, we have studied core-induced hepatic steatosis in the absence or presence of antisense oligonucleotide-mediated knockdown of PLIN3. PLIN3 knockdown blunted HCV core-induced steatosis in transgenic mice fed either chow or a moderate fat diet. Collectively, our studies demonstrate that the LD scaffold protein, PLIN3, is essential for HCV core-induced hepatic steatosis and provide new insights into the pathogenesis of HCV.	Adipose triglyceride lipase (ATGL) and comparative gene identification 58 (CGI-58) are critical regulators of triacylglycerol (TAG) turnover. CGI-58 is thought to regulate TAG mobilization by stimulating the enzymatic activity of ATGL. However, it is not known whether this coactivation function of CGI-58 occurs in vivo. Moreover, the phenotype of human CGI-58 mutations suggests ATGL-independent functions. Through direct comparison of mice with single or double deficiency of CGI-58 and ATGL, we show here that CGI-58 knockdown causes hepatic steatosis in both the presence and absence of ATGL. CGI-58 also regulates hepatic diacylglycerol (DAG) and inflammation in an ATGL-independent manner. Interestingly, ATGL deficiency, but not CGI-58 deficiency, results in suppression of the hepatic and adipose de novo lipogenic program. Collectively, these findings show that CGI-58 regulates hepatic neutral lipid storage and inflammation in the genetic absence of ATGL, demonstrating that mechanisms driving TAG lipolysis in hepatocytes differ significantly from those in adipocytes.	Statin drugs have proven a successful and relatively safe therapy for the treatment of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (CVD). However, even with the substantial low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol lowering achieved with statin treatment, CVD remains the top cause of death in developed countries. Selective inhibitors of the cholesterol esterifying enzyme sterol-O acyltransferase 2 (SOAT2) hold great promise as effective CVD therapeutics. In mouse models, previous work has demonstrated that either antisense oligonucleotide (ASO) or small molecule inhibitors of SOAT2 can effectively reduce CVD progression, and even promote regression of established CVD. Although it is well known that SOAT2-driven cholesterol esterification can alter both the packaging and retention of atherogenic apoB-containing lipoproteins, here we set out to determine whether SOAT2-driven cholesterol esterification can also impact basal and liver X receptor (LXR)-stimulated fecal neutral sterol loss. These studies demonstrate that SOAT2 is a negative regulator of LXR-stimulated fecal neutral sterol loss in mice. 	Atherosclerosis and associated cardiovascular disease still remain the largest cause of mortality worldwide. Several recent studies have discovered that metabolism of common nutrients by gut microbes can produce a proatherogenic metabolite called trimethylamine-N-oxide (TMAO). The goal of this review is to discuss emerging evidence that the hepatic enzyme that generates TMAO, flavin monooxygenase 3 (FMO3), plays a regulatory role in maintaining whole body cholesterol balance and atherosclerosis development. Several independent studies have recently uncovered a link between either FMO3 itself or its enzymatic product TMAO with atherosclerosis and hepatic insulin resistance. These recent studies show that inhibition of FMO3 stimulates macrophage reverse cholesterol transport and protects against atherosclerosis in mice. A growing body of work demonstrates that nutrients present in high-fat foods (phosphatidylcholine, choline and L-carnitine) can be metabolized by the gut microbial enzymes to generate trimethylamine, which is then further metabolized by the host enzyme FMO3 to produce proatherogenic TMAO. Here, we discuss emerging evidence that the TMAO-producing enzyme FMO3 is centrally involved in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis by regulating cholesterol metabolism and insulin resistance, and how these new insights provide exciting new avenues for cardiovascular disease therapies.	Cardiovascular disease (CVD) remains the largest cause of mortality in most developed countries. Although recent failed clinical trials and Mendelian randomization studies have called into question the high-density lipoprotein (HDL) hypothesis, it remains well accepted that stimulating the process of reverse cholesterol transport (RCT) can prevent or even regress atherosclerosis. The prevailing model for RCT is that cholesterol from the artery wall must be delivered to the liver where it is secreted into bile before leaving the body through fecal excretion. However, many studies have demonstrated that RCT can proceed through a non-biliary pathway known as transintestinal cholesterol excretion (TICE). The goal of this review is to discuss the current state of knowledge of the TICE pathway, with emphasis on points of therapeutic intervention. 
Bruggeman, Leslie	Inflammation and Immunity	31202388	30332315	29192064	27026370	24788168	23087767	21221075	19857388	19776779	17195181	Viral infections in an immunocompetent host can cause both acute and chronic kidney diseases, either by direct damage to the infected kidney cells or as a consequence of systemic immune responses that impact the kidneys' function. Viruses have evolved mechanisms to hijack signaling pathways of the infected cell, including the mammalian target of rapamycin pathway to support viral replication, and to evade antiviral immune responses such as those mediated by miR-155 via microRNA mimetics expressed by the virus. At both the cellular and systemic levels, the host has also evolved mechanisms to counter the viral subversion strategies in the evolutionary battle for mutual survival. In the era of genomic medicine, understanding individual genetic variations that lead to differences in susceptibilities to infection and variabilities in immune responses may open new avenues for treatment, such as the recently described functions of apolipoprotein L1 risk alleles in HIV-associated nephropathy. In addition, state-of-the-art high-throughput sequencing methods have discovered new viruses as the cause for chronic diseases not previously attributed to an infection. The potential application of these methods to idiopathic kidney diseases may reveal similar occult infections by unknown viruses. Precision medicine objectives to optimize host-directed and pathogen-directed therapies for kidney diseases associated with infectious causes will only be achieved through detailed understanding of genetic susceptibility associated with immune responses and viral tropism.	The mechanism that explains the association of APOL1 variants with nondiabetic kidney diseases in African Americans remains unclear. Kidney disease risk is inherited as a recessive trait, and many studies investigating the intracellular function of APOL1 have indicated the APOL1 variants G1 and G2 are associated with cytotoxicity. Whether cytotoxicity results from the absence of a protective effect conferred by the G0 allele or is induced by a deleterious effect of variant allele expression has not be conclusively established. A central issue hampering basic biology studies is the lack of model systems that authentically replicate APOL1 expression patterns. APOL1 is present in humans and a few other primates and appears to have important functions in the kidney, as the kidney is the primary target for disease associated with the genetic variance. There have been no studies to date assessing the function of untagged APOL1 protein under native expression in human or primate kidney cells, and no studies have examined the heterozygous state, a disease-free condition in humans. A second major issue is the chronic kidney disease (CKD)-associated APOL1 variants are conditional mutations, where the disease-inducing function is only evident under the appropriate environmental stimulus. In addition, it is possible there may be more than one mechanism of pathogenesis that is dependent on the nature of the stressor or other genetic variabilities. Studies addressing the function of APOL1 and how the CKD-associated APOL1 variants cause kidney disease are challenging and remain to be fully investigated under conditions that faithfully model known human genetics and physiology.	The renal podocyte is central to the filtration function of the kidney that is dependent on maintaining both highly organized, branched cell structures forming foot processes, and a unique cell-cell junction, the slit diaphragm. Our recent studies investigating the developmental formation of the slit diaphragm identified a novel claudin family tetraspannin, TM4SF10, which is a binding partner for ADAP (also known as Fyn binding protein Fyb). To investigate the role of ADAP in podocyte function in relation to Fyn and TM4SF10, we examined ADAP knockout (KO) mice and podocytes. ADAP KO mice developed glomerular pathology that began as hyalinosis and progressed to glomerulosclerosis, with aged male animals developing low levels of albuminuria. Podocyte cell lines established from the KO mice had slower attachment kinetics compared to wild-type cells, although this did not affect the total number of attached cells nor the ability to form focal contacts. After attachment, the ADAP KO cells did not attain typical podocyte morphology, lacking the elaborate cell protrusions typical of wild-type podocytes, with the actin cytoskeleton forming circumferential stress fibers. The absence of ADAP did not alter Fyn levels nor were there differences between KO and wild-type podocytes in the reduction of Fyn activating phosphorylation events with puromycin aminonucleoside treatment. In the setting of endogenous TM4SF10 overexpression, the absence of ADAP altered the formation of cell-cell contacts containing TM4SF10. These studies suggest ADAP does not alter Fyn activity in podocytes, but appears to mediate downstream effects of Fyn controlled by TM4SF10 involving actin cytoskeleton organization.	APOL1 risk variants are associated with kidney disease in blacks, but the mechanisms of renal injury associated with APOL1 risk variants are unknown. Because APOL1 is unique to humans and some primates, we created transgenic (Tg) mice using the promoter of nephrin-encoding Nphs1 to express the APOL1 reference sequence (G0) or the G2 risk variant in podocytes, establishing Tg lines with a spectrum of APOL1 expression levels. Podocytes from Tg-G0 and Tg-G2 mice did not undergo necrosis, apoptosis, or autophagic cell death in vivo, even in lines with highly expressed transgenes. Further, Tg-G0 and Tg-G2 mice did not develop kidney pathology, proteinuria, or azotemia as of 300 days of age. However, by 200 days of age, Tg-G2 mice had significantly lower podocyte density than age-matched WT and Tg-G0 mice had, a difference that was not evident at weaning. Notably, a pregnancy-associated phenotype that encompassed eclampsia, preeclampsia, fetal/neonatal deaths, and small litter sizes occurred in some Tg-G0 mice and more severely in Tg-G2 mice. Similar to human placenta, placentas of Tg mice expressed APOL1. Overall, these results suggest podocyte depletion could predispose individuals with APOL1 risk genotypes to kidney disease in response to a second stressor, and add to other published evidence associating APOL1 expression with preeclampsia.	Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-mediated activation of the NF-κB family of transcription factors is mediated by two receptors, TNFR1 and TNFR2. These two receptors have unique roles in response to TNF and have been the focus of new therapeutic strategies in a variety of diseases with an immune or an inflammatory component. This chapter describes in vitro methods to functionally identify which TNF receptor is initiating NF-κB activation. This will include antibody-mediated receptor blockade and RNAi-mediated gene silencing targeting the individual receptors. The NF-κB activation methods presented include standard, accepted assays for monitoring the sequential activation steps through the NF-κB signal transduction cascade, including IκBα degradation, NF-κB nuclear translocation, and transcriptional activation of gene expression. 	In specialized capillary beds such as the kidney glomerulus, the sheet-like structure of the basement membrane in conjunction with opposing monolayers of endothelium and epithelium form the functioning filtration unit of the kidney. Using a novel cross-linking method on a collagen substrate, we have created a novel hydrogel scaffold to substitute for the basement membrane. Using a simple casting method to create thin films of the hydrogel scaffold (1-5μm), the scaffolds were suitable for long-term static culture, and supported cell attachment and long term cell viability similar to a standard type I collagen substrate. Bulk diffusion and protein permeability of the hydrogel scaffold were evaluated, in addition to its use in a perfusion chamber where it withstood hydraulic pressures typical for glomerular capillaries. This system thus provided a suitable cell substrate for the co-culture of renal epithelial podocytes and endothelial cells in a device that replicates the geometry of the in vivo juxtaposition of the two cell types in relation to their basement membrane.	The development of proliferative podocytopathies has been linked to ligation of tumor necrosis factor receptor 2 (TNFR2) expressed on the renal parenchyma; however, the TNFR2-positive cells within the kidney responsible for podocyte injury are unknown. We detected de novo expression of TNFR2 on podocytes before hyperplastic injury in crescentic glomerulonephritis of mice with nephrotoxic nephritis, and in collapsing glomerulopathy of Tg26(HIV/nl) mice, kd/kd mice, and human beings. We further found that serum levels of soluble TNF-α and TNFR2 correlated significantly with renal injury in Tg26(HIV/nl) mice. Thus, we asked whether ligand binding of TNFR2 on podocytes ex vivo precipitates the characteristic proliferative and pro-inflammatory diseased podocyte phenotypes. Soluble TNF-α activated NF-κB and dose-dependently induced podocyte proliferation, marked by the expression of the podocyte G(1) cyclin and NF-κB target gene, cyclin D1. Microarray gene and chemokine protein expression profiling showed a marked pro-inflammatory NF-κB signature, and activated podocytes secreting CCL2- and CCL5-induced macrophage migration in transwell assays. Neutralization of TNFR2 on podocytes with blocking antibodies abrogated NF-κB activation and the induction of cyclin D1 by TNF-α, and identified TNFR2 as the primary receptor that induced IκBα degradation, the initiating event in NF-κB activation. These results suggest that TNFR2 expressed on podocytes and its canonical NF-κB signaling may directly interpose the compound pathogenic responses by podocytes to TNF-α, in the absence of other TNFR2-positive renal cell types in proliferative podocytopathies.	Direct effects of HIV-1 infection on the kidney combine with immune and genetic factors, comorbidities, coinfections, and medication toxicities to induce a spectrum of kidney disorders in HIV disease. The most dramatic of these, HIV-associated nephropathy (HIVAN), emerges almost exclusively in persons of African descent and is associated with rapid progression to end-stage renal disease in the absence of antiretroviral therapy (ART). ART modifies the natural history of HIVAN, but the renal benefits of ART may not be limited to HIVAN. ART is often under prescribed or incorrectly dosed in persons with kidney disease. Vigilant attention to renal function and an understanding of the complex associations involving the kidneys are necessary for optimal care of these patients.	The two most common HIV-associated renal diseases, HIV-associated nephropathy and HIV immune-complex kidney disease, share the common pathologic finding of hyperplasia within the glomerulus. Podocyte injury is central to the pathogenesis of these diseases; however, the source of the proliferating glomerular epithelial cell remains a topic of debate. Parenchymal injury has been linked to direct infection of renal epithelial cells by HIV-1, although the mechanism of viral entry into this non-lymphoid compartment is unclear. Although transgenic rodent models have provided insight into viral proteins responsible for inducing renal disease, such models have substantial limitations. Rodent HIV-1 models, for instance, cannot replicate all features of immune activation, a process that could have an important role in the pathogenesis of the HIV-associated renal diseases.	Cell junctions in the nephron are highly specialized to perform specific and distinct filtration and reabsorption functions. The mature kidney forms complex cell junctions including slit diaphragms that prevent the passage of serum proteins into the filtrate, and tubule cell junctions that regulate specific paracellular ion reuptake. We have investigated the expression of TM4SF10 (Trans-Membrane tetra(4)-Span Family 10) in mouse kidneys. TM4SF10 is the vertebrate orthologue of Caenorhabditis elegans VAB-9, a tetraspan adherens junction protein in the PMP22/EMP/Claudin family of proteins. We found that TM4SF10 localizes at the basal-most region of podocyte precursors before the capillary loop stage, at some tubule precursors, and at the ureteric bud junction with S-shaped bodies. Overall expression of TM4SF10 peaked at postnatal day 4 and was virtually absent in adult kidneys. The very limited expression of TM4SF10 protein that persisted into adulthood was restricted to a few tubule segments but remained localized to the basal region of lateral membranes. In undifferentiated cultured podocytes, TM4SF10 localized to the perinuclear region and translocated to the cell membrane after Cadherin appearance at cell-cell contacts. TM4SF10 colocalized with ZO1 and p120ctn in undifferentiated confluent podocytes and also colocalized with the tips of actin filaments at cell contacts. Upon differentiation of cultured podocytes, TM4SF10 protein disappeared from cell contacts and expression ceased. These results suggest that TM4SF10 functions during differentiation of podocytes and may participate in the maturation of cell junctions from simple adherens junctions to elaborate slit diaphragms. TM4SF10 may define a new class of Claudin-like proteins that function during junctional development.
Byzova, Tatiana	Neurosciences	29724896	28860945	28829753	28570266	27713004	26971877	26965920	25966710	25595903	25540429	Early stages of inflammation are characterized by extensive oxidative insult by recruited and activated neutrophils. Secretion of peroxidases, including the main enzyme, myeloperoxidase, leads to the generation of reactive oxygen species. We show that this oxidative insult leads to polyunsaturated fatty acid (eg, docosahexaenoate), oxidation, and accumulation of its product 2-(ω-carboxyethyl)pyrrole (CEP), which, in turn, is capable of protein modifications. In vivo CEP is generated predominantly at the inflammatory sites in macrophage-rich areas. During thioglycollate-induced inflammation, neutralization of CEP adducts dramatically reduced macrophage accumulation in the inflamed peritoneal cavity while exhibiting no effect on the early recruitment of neutrophils, suggesting a role in the second wave of inflammation. CEP modifications were abundantly deposited along the path of neutrophils migrating through the 3-dimensional fibrin matrix in vitro. Neutrophil-mediated CEP formation was markedly inhibited by the myeloperoxidase inhibitor, 4-ABH, and significantly reduced in myeloperoxidase-deficient mice. On macrophages, CEP adducts were recognized by cell adhesion receptors, integrin αMβ2 and αDβ2 Macrophage migration through CEP-fibrin gel was dramatically augmented when compared with fibrin alone, and was reduced by β2-integrin deficiency. Thus, neutrophil-mediated oxidation of abundant polyunsaturated fatty acids leads to the transformation of existing proteins into stronger adhesive ligands for αMβ2- and αDβ2-dependent macrophage migration. The presence of a carboxyl group rather than a pyrrole moiety on these adducts, resembling characteristics of bacterial and/or immobilized ligands, is critical for recognition by macrophages. Therefore, specific oxidation-dependent modification of extracellular matrix, aided by neutrophils, promotes subsequent αMβ2- and αDβ2-mediated migration/retention of macrophages during inflammation.	It is well accepted that functional activity of platelet integrin αIIbβ3 is crucial for hemostasis and thrombosis. The β3 subunit of the complex undergoes tyrosine phosphorylation shown to be critical for outside-in integrin signaling and platelet clot retraction ex vivo. However, the role of this important signaling event in other aspects of prothrombotic platelet function is unknown. Here, we assess the role of β3 tyrosine phosphorylation in platelet function regulation with a knock-in mouse strain, where two β3 cytoplasmic tyrosines are mutated to phenylalanine (DiYF). We employed platelet transfusion technique and intravital microscopy for observing the cellular events involved in specific steps of thrombus growth to investigate in detail the role of β3 tyrosine phosphorylation in arterial thrombosis in vivo. Upon injury, DiYF mice exhibited delayed arterial occlusion and unstable thrombus formation. The mean thrombus volume in DiYF mice formed on collagen was only 50% of that in WT. This effect was attributed to DiYF platelets but not to other blood cells and endothelium, which also carry these mutations. Transfusion of isolated DiYF but not WT platelets into irradiated WT mice resulted in reversal of the thrombotic phenotype and significantly prolonged blood vessel occlusion times. DiYF platelets exhibited reduced adhesion to collagen under in vitro shear conditions compared to WT platelets. Decreased platelet microparticle release after activation, both in vitro and in vivo, were observed in DiYF mice compared to WT mice. β3 tyrosine phosphorylation of platelet αIIbβ3 regulates both platelet pro-thrombotic activity and the formation of a stable platelet thrombus, as well as arterial microparticle release.	NA	Microglia play a critical role in the development and homeostasis of the CNS. While mobilization of microglia is critical for a number of pathologies, understanding of the mechanisms of their migration in vivo is limited and often based on similarities to macrophages. Kindlin3 deficiency as well as Kindlin3 mutations of integrin-binding sites abolish both integrin inside-out and outside-in signaling in microglia, thereby resulting in severe deficiencies in cell adhesion, polarization, and migration in vitro, which are similar to the defects observed in macrophages. In contrast, while Kindlin3 mutations impaired macrophage mobilization in vivo, they had no effect either on the population of microglia in the CNS during development or on mobilization of microglia and subsequent microgliosis in a model of multiple sclerosis. At the same time, acute microglial response to laser-induced injury was impaired by the lack of Kindlin3-integrin interactions. Based on 2-photon imaging of microglia in the brain, Kindlin3 is required for elongation of microglial processes toward the injury site and formation of phagosomes in response to brain injury. Thus, while Kindlin3 deficiency in human subjects is not expected to diminish the presence of microglia within CNS, it might delay the recovery process after injury, thereby exacerbating its complications.	Polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) are known to be present and/or enriched in vegetable and fish oils. Among fatty acids, n-3 PUFA are generally considered to be protective in inflammation-related diseases. The guidelines for substituting saturated fatty acids for PUFAs have been highly publicized for decades by numerous health organizations. Recently, however, the beneficial properties of n-3 PUFA are questioned by detailed analyses of multiple randomized controlled clinical trials. The reported heterogeneity of results is likely due not only to differential effects of PUFAs on various pathological processes in humans, but also to the wide spectrum of PUFA's derived products generated in vivo. The goal of this review is to discuss the studies focused on well-defined end-products of PUFAs oxidation, their generation, presence in various pathological and physiological conditions, their biological activities and known receptors. Carboxyethylpyrrole (CEP), a DHA-derived oxidized product, is especially emphasized due to recent data demonstrating its pathophysiological significance in many inflammation-associated diseases, including atherosclerosis, hyperlipidemia, thrombosis, macular degeneration, and tumor progression. CEP is a product of radical-based oxidation of PUFA that forms adducts with proteins and lipids in blood and tissues, generating new powerful ligands for TLRs and scavenger receptors. The interaction of CEP with these receptors affects inflammatory response, angiogenesis, and wound healing. The detailed understanding of CEP-mediated cellular responses may provide a basis for the development of novel therapeutic strategies and dietary recommendations.	The signalling pathways operational in quiescent, post-development vasculature remain enigmatic. Here we show that unlike neovascularization, endothelial Akt signalling in established vasculature is crucial not for endothelial cell (EC) survival, but for sustained interactions with pericytes and vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) regulating vascular stability and function. Inducible endothelial-specific Akt1 deletion in adult global Akt2KO mice triggers progressive VSMC apoptosis. In hearts, this causes a loss of arteries and arterioles and, despite a high capillary density, diminished vascular patency and severe cardiac dysfunction. Similarly, endothelial Akt deletion induces retinal VSMC loss and basement membrane deterioration resulting in vascular regression and retinal atrophy. Mechanistically, the Akt/mTOR axis controls endothelial Jagged1 expression and, thereby, Notch signalling regulating VSMC maintenance. Jagged1 peptide treatment of Akt1ΔEC;Akt2KO mice and Jagged1 re-expression in Akt-deficient endothelium restores VSMC coverage. Thus, sustained endothelial Akt1/2 signalling is critical in maintaining vascular stability and homeostasis, thereby preserving tissue and organ function. 	The importance of research focused on the final events of atherothrombosis cannot be overestimated. Platelet hyperreactivity leading to thrombosis is the main reason for mortality and morbidity in patients with cardiovascular disease and stroke, which together remain a leading cause of death in developed countries. In this issue of Blood, Shen et al1 establish another functional link between proatherogenic lipoproteins and platelet-mediated thrombus formation with a specific focus on stroke. In their model, the initiating component is L5, the electronegative subfraction of low-density lipoproteins (LDLs), which was shown to be substantially elevated in patients with ischemic stroke. L5 was shown to activate platelets via its receptor, lectin-like oxidized LDL receptor-1 (LOX-1), and αβ amyloid peptide, which together contribute to platelet hyperreactivity and stroke complications.	Oxidative stress is an important contributing factor in several human pathologies ranging from atherosclerosis to cancer progression; however, the mechanisms underlying tissue protection from oxidation products are poorly understood. Oxidation of membrane phospholipids, containing the polyunsaturated fatty acid docosahexaenoic acid, results in the accumulation of an end product, 2-(ω-carboxyethyl)pyrrole (CEP), which was shown to have proangiogenic and proinflammatory functions. Although CEP is continuously accumulated during chronic processes, such as tumor progression and atherosclerosis, its level during wound healing return to normal when the wound is healed, suggesting the existence of a specific clearance mechanism. To identify the cellular and molecular mechanism for CEP clearance. Here, we show that macrophages are able to bind, scavenge, and metabolize carboxyethylpyrrole derivatives of proteins but not structurally similar ethylpyrrole derivatives, demonstrating the high specificity of the process. F4/80(hi) and M2-skewed macrophages are much more efficient at CEP binding and scavenging compared with F4/80(lo) and M1-skewed macrophages. Depletion of macrophages leads to increased CEP accumulation in vivo. CEP binding and clearance are dependent on 2 receptors expressed by macrophages, CD36 and toll-like receptor 2. Although knockout of each individual receptor results in diminished CEP clearance, the lack of both receptors almost completely abrogates macrophages' ability to scavenge CEP derivatives of proteins. Our study demonstrates the mechanisms of recognition, scavenging, and clearance of pathophysiologically active products of lipid oxidation in vivo, thereby contributing to tissue protection against products of oxidative stress.	Circulating tumor cells (CTCs) are associated with cancer progression, aggressiveness and metastasis. However, the frequency and predictive value of CTCs in patients remains unknown. If circulating cells are involved in tumor aggressiveness and metastasis, then cell levels should decline upon tumor removal in localized cancer patients, but remain high in metastatic patients. Accordingly, proposed biomarkers CD117/c-kit, CD133, CXCR4/CD184, and CD34-positive cell percentages in the blood of patients undergoing radical prostatectomy for localized cancer were assessed by flow cytometry prior to intervention and 1-3 months postoperatively. Only circulating CD117⁺ cell percentages decreased after radical prostatectomy, increased with cancer progression and correlated with high PSA values. Notably, postoperative CD117⁺ levels did not decrease in patients experiencing biochemical recurrence. In a xenograft model, CD117-enriched tumors were more vascularized and aggressive. Thus, CD117 expression on CTCs promotes tumor progression and could be a biomarker for prostate cancer diagnosis, prognosis, and/or response to therapy.	Kindlins are integrin-interacting proteins essential for integrin-mediated cell adhesiveness. In this study, we focused on the evolutionary origin and functional specialization of kindlins as a part of the evolutionary adaptation of cell adhesive machinery. Database searches revealed that many members of the integrin machinery (including talin and integrins) existed before kindlin emergence in evolution. Among the analyzed species, all metazoan lineages—but none of the premetazoans—had at least one kindlin-encoding gene, whereas talin was present in several premetazoan lineages. Kindlin appears to originate from a duplication of the sequence encoding the N-terminal fragment of talin (the talin head domain) with a subsequent insertion of the PH domain of separate origin. Sequence analysis identified a member of the actin filament-associated protein 1 (AFAP1) superfamily as the most likely origin of the kindlin PH domain. The functional divergence between kindlin paralogues was assessed using the sequence swap (chimera) approach. Comparison of kindlin 2 (K2)/kindlin 3 (K3) chimeras revealed that the F2 subdomain, in particular its C-terminal part, is crucial for the differential functional properties of K2 and K3. The presence of this segment enables K2 but not K3 to localize to focal adhesions. Sequence analysis of the C-terminal part of the F2 subdomain of K3 suggests that insertion of a variable glycine-rich sequence in vertebrates contributed to the loss of constitutive K3 targeting to focal adhesions. Thus emergence and subsequent functional specialization of kindlins allowed multicellular organisms to develop additional tissue-specific adaptations of cell adhesiveness.
Cheng, Feixiong	Genomic Medicine Institute	31178408	31116390	30928438	30921324	30867426	30779739	30715873	30610579	30545954	30359818	Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is an aggressive and heterogeneous disease that lacks clinically actionable genetic alterations that limit targeted therapies. Here we explore a systems pharmacology approach that integrates drug-target networks and large-scale genomic profiles of TNBC and identify wogonoside, one of the major active flavonoids, as a potent angiogenesis inhibitor. We validate that wogonoside attenuates cell migration, tube formation, and rat aorta microvessel outgrowth, and reduces formation of blood vessels in chicken chorioallantoic membrane and TNBC cell-induced Matrigel plugs. In addition, wogonoside inhibits growth and angiogenesis in TNBC cell xenograft models. This network-based approach predicts, and we empirically validate, wogonoside's antiangiogenic effects resulting from vascular endothelial growth factor secretion. Mechanistically, wogonoside inhibits Gli1 nuclear translocation and transcriptional activities associated with Hedgehog signaling, by promoting Smoothened degradation in a proteasome-dependent mechanism. This study offers a powerful, integrated, systems pharmacology-based strategy for oncological drug discovery and identifies wogonoside as a potential TNBC angiogenesis inhibitor.	Traditional drug discovery and development are often time-consuming and high risk. Repurposing/repositioning of approved drugs offers a relatively low-cost and high-efficiency approach toward rapid development of efficacious treatments. The emergence of large-scale, heterogeneous biological networks has offered unprecedented opportunities for developing in silico drug repositioning approaches. However, capturing highly non-linear, heterogeneous network structures by most existing approaches for drug repositioning has been challenging. In this study, we developed a network-based deep-learning approach, termed deepDR, for in silico drug repurposing by integrating 10 networks: one drug-disease, one drug-side-effect, one drug-target and seven drug-drug networks. Specifically, deepDR learns high-level features of drugs from the heterogeneous networks by a multi-modal deep autoencoder. Then the learned low-dimensional representation of drugs together with clinically reported drug-disease pairs are encoded and decoded collectively via a variational autoencoder to infer candidates for approved drugs for which they were not originally approved. We found that deepDR revealed high performance [the area under receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC) = 0.908], outperforming conventional network-based or machine learning-based approaches. Importantly, deepDR-predicted drug-disease associations were validated by the ClinicalTrials.gov database (AUROC = 0.826) and we showcased several novel deepDR-predicted approved drugs for Alzheimer's disease (e.g. risperidone and aripiprazole) and Parkinson's disease (e.g. methylphenidate and pergolide). Source code and data can be downloaded from https://github.com/ChengF-Lab/deepDR. Supplementary data are available online at Bioinformatics.	Immune checkpoint-blocking antibodies are actively used to treat multiple cancer types; however, the underlying resistance mechanism remains unclear. In a recent study, Zhao et al. (Nat. Med. 2019;25:462-469) found that somatic PTEN mutations were associated with resistance to immune checkpoint inhibitors by altering immunosuppressive environments in patients with glioblastomas.	At the root of the so-called precision medicine or precision oncology, which is our focus here, is the hypothesis that cancer treatment would be considerably better if therapies were guided by a tumor's genomic alterations. This hypothesis has sparked major initiatives focusing on whole-genome and/or exome sequencing, creation of large databases, and developing tools for their statistical analyses-all aspiring to identify actionable alterations, and thus molecular targets, in a patient. At the center of the massive amount of collected sequence data is their interpretations that largely rest on statistical analysis and phenotypic observations. Statistics is vital, because it guides identification of cancer-driving alterations. However, statistics of mutations do not identify a change in protein conformation; therefore, it may not define sufficiently accurate actionable mutations, neglecting those that are rare. Among the many thematic overviews of precision oncology, this review innovates by further comprehensively including precision pharmacology, and within this framework, articulating its protein structural landscape and consequences to cellular signaling pathways. It provides the underlying physicochemical basis, thereby also opening the door to a broader community.	Drug combinations, offering increased therapeutic efficacy and reduced toxicity, play an important role in treating multiple complex diseases. Yet, our ability to identify and validate effective combinations is limited by a combinatorial explosion, driven by both the large number of drug pairs as well as dosage combinations. Here we propose a network-based methodology to identify clinically efficacious drug combinations for specific diseases. By quantifying the network-based relationship between drug targets and disease proteins in the human protein-protein interactome, we show the existence of six distinct classes of drug-drug-disease combinations. Relying on approved drug combinations for hypertension and cancer, we find that only one of the six classes correlates with therapeutic effects: if the targets of the drugs both hit disease module, but target separate neighborhoods. This finding allows us to identify and validate antihypertensive combinations, offering a generic, powerful network methodology to identify efficacious combination therapies in drug development.	Recent advances in next-generation sequencing and computational technologies have enabled routine analysis of large-scale single-cell ribonucleic acid sequencing (scRNA-seq) data. However, scRNA-seq technologies have suffered from several technical challenges, including low mean expression levels in most genes and higher frequencies of missing data than bulk population sequencing technologies. Identifying functional gene sets and their regulatory networks that link specific cell types to human diseases and therapeutics from scRNA-seq profiles are daunting tasks. In this study, we developed a Component Overlapping Attribute Clustering (COAC) algorithm to perform the localized (cell subpopulation) gene co-expression network analysis from large-scale scRNA-seq profiles. Gene subnetworks that represent specific gene co-expression patterns are inferred from the components of a decomposed matrix of scRNA-seq profiles. We showed that single-cell gene subnetworks identified by COAC from multiple time points within cell phases can be used for cell type identification with high accuracy (83%). In addition, COAC-inferred subnetworks from melanoma patients' scRNA-seq profiles are highly correlated with survival rate from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). Moreover, the localized gene subnetworks identified by COAC from individual patients' scRNA-seq data can be used as pharmacogenomics biomarkers to predict drug responses (The area under the receiver operating characteristic curves ranges from 0.728 to 0.783) in cancer cell lines from the Genomics of Drug Sensitivity in Cancer (GDSC) database. In summary, COAC offers a powerful tool to identify potential network-based diagnostic and pharmacogenomics biomarkers from large-scale scRNA-seq profiles. COAC is freely available at https://github.com/ChengF-Lab/COAC.	Blockade of the human ether-à-go-go-related gene (hERG) channel by small molecules induces the prolongation of the QT interval which leads to fatal cardiotoxicity and accounts for the withdrawal or severe restrictions on the use of many approved drugs. In this study, we develop a deep learning approach, termed deephERG, for prediction of hERG blockers of small molecules in drug discovery and postmarketing surveillance. In total, we assemble 7,889 compounds with well-defined experimental data on the hERG and with diverse chemical structures. We find that deephERG models built by a multitask deep neural network (DNN) algorithm outperform those built by single-task DNN, naı̈ve Bayes (NB), support vector machine (SVM), random forest (RF), and graph convolutional neural network (GCNN). Specifically, the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) value for the best model of deephERG is 0.967 on the validation set. Furthermore, based on 1,824 U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved drugs, 29.6% drugs are computationally identified to have potential hERG inhibitory activities by deephERG, highlighting the importance of hERG risk assessment in early drug discovery. Finally, we showcase several novel predicted hERG blockers on approved antineoplastic agents, which are validated by clinical case reports, experimental evidence, and the literature. In summary, this study presents a powerful deep learning-based tool for risk assessment of hERG-mediated cardiotoxicities in drug discovery and postmarketing surveillance.	How can biophysical principles help precision medicine identify rare driver mutations? A major tenet of pragmatic approaches to precision oncology and pharmacology is that driver mutations are very frequent. However, frequency is a statistical attribute, not a mechanistic one. Rare mutations can also act through the same mechanism, and as we discuss below, &quot;latent driver&quot; mutations may also follow the same route, with &quot;helper&quot; mutations. Here, we review how biophysics provides mechanistic guidelines that extend precision medicine. We outline principles and strategies, especially focusing on mutations that drive cancer. Biophysics has contributed profoundly to deciphering biological processes. However, driven by data science, precision medicine has skirted some of its major tenets. Data science embodies genomics, tissue- and cell-specific expression levels, making it capable of defining genome- and systems-wide molecular disease signatures. It classifies cancer driver genes/mutations and affected pathways, and its associated protein structural data guide drug discovery. Biophysics complements data science. It considers structures and their heterogeneous ensembles, explains how mutational variants can signal through distinct pathways, and how allo-network drugs can be harnessed. Biophysics clarifies how one mutation-frequent or rare-can affect multiple phenotypic traits by populating conformations that favor interactions with other network modules. It also suggests how to identify such mutations and their signaling consequences. Biophysics offers principles and strategies that can help precision medicine push the boundaries to transform our insight into biological processes and the practice of personalized medicine. By contrast, &quot;phenotypic drug discovery,&quot; which capitalizes on physiological cellular conditions and first-in-class drug discovery, may not capture the proper molecular variant. This is because variants of the same protein can express more than one phenotype, and a phenotype can be encoded by several variants.	Recent remarkable advances in genome sequencing have enabled detailed maps of identified and interpreted genomic variation, dubbed &quot;mutanomes.&quot; The availability of thousands of exome/genome sequencing data has prompted the emergence of new challenges in the identification of novel druggable targets and therapeutic strategies. Typically, mutanomes are viewed as one- or two-dimensional. The three-dimensional protein structural view of personal mutanomes sheds light on the functional consequences of clinically actionable mutations revealed in tumor diagnosis and followed up in personalized treatments, in a mutanome-informed manner. In this review, we describe the protein structural landscape of personal mutanomes and provide expert opinions on rational strategies for more streamlined oncological drug discovery and molecularly targeted therapies for each individual and each tumor. We provide the structural mechanism of orthosteric versus allosteric drugs at the atom-level via targeting specific somatic alterations for combating drug resistance and the &quot;undruggable&quot; challenges in solid and hematologic neoplasias. We discuss computational biophysics strategies for innovative mutanome-informed cancer immunotherapies and combination immunotherapies. Finally, we highlight a personal mutanome infrastructure for the emerging development of personalized cancer medicine using a breast cancer case study.	Despite recent advance of therapeutic development, coronary artery disease (CAD) remains one of the major issues to public health. The use of genomics and systems biology approaches to inform drug discovery and development have offered the possibilities for new target identification and in silico drug repurposing. In this study, we propose a network-based, systems pharmacology framework for target identification and drug repurposing in pharmacologic treatment and chemoprevention of CAD. Specifically, we build in silico models by integrating known drug-target interactions, CAD genes derived from the genetic and genomic studies, and the human protein-protein interactome. We demonstrate that the proposed in silico models can successfully uncover approved drugs and novel natural products in potentially treating and preventing CAD. In case studies, we highlight several approved drugs (e.g., fasudil, parecoxib, and dexamethasone) or natural products (e.g., resveratrol, luteolin, daidzein and caffeic acid) with new mechanism-of-action in chemical intervention of CAD by network analysis. In summary, this study offers a powerful systems pharmacology approach for target identification and in silico drug repurposing on CAD.
Cheng, Jianguo	Neurosciences	30649518	30615177	30252120	29897539	29285750	28938297	28445708	28291470	27906939	27739217	NA	Growth hormone (GH) and GH-related signaling molecules play an important role in nociception and development of chronic pain. This review aims to examine the potential molecular mechanisms through which GH-related signaling modulates sensory hypersensitivity in rodents, the clinical pharmacology of GH, and the clinical evidence of GH treatment for several common pain syndromes. A search was conducted using the PUBMED/MEDLINE database, Scopus, and the Cochrane library for all reports published in English on GH in pain management from inception through May 2018. A critical review was performed on the mechanisms of GH-related signaling and the pharmacology of GH. The levels of clinical evidence and implications for recommendations of all of the included studies were graded. The search yielded 379 articles, of which 201 articles were deemed irrelevant by reading the titles. There were 53 reports deemed relevant after reading abstracts. All of these 53 articles were retrieved for the analysis and discussion. Dysfunction of the GH/insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1)/ghrelin axis was linked to hyperalgesia and several common clinical pain syndromes. Low levels of GH and IGF-1 were linked to pain hypersensitivity, whereas ghrelin appeared to provide analgesic effects. Pretreatment of GH reversed mechanical and thermal hypersensitivity in an animal model of inflammatory pain. Clinical trials support GH treatment in a subgroup of patients with fibromyalgia syndrome (level of evidence: 1B+) or chronic lower back pain syndrome (level of evidence: 2C+).	NA	NA	Opioid tolerance (OT) and opioid-induced hyperalgesia (OIH) are major challenges in medicine. Here we report that transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) prevented and reversed OT and OIH in rats and mice. The preventive and therapeutic effects were long-lasting and consistent across different assessment schemes. Both intrathecal and intravenous transplantations were effective and safe. This emerging therapeutic strategy has thus shown promise to impact clinical practice and improve the efficacy and safety of opioid therapy.	To update the recent development of spinal cord stimulation (SCS) technology in the management of chronic pain. Efficacy of SCS therapy has been significantly improved by the recent development of high frequency (HF-10 kHz) stimulation, burst stimulation, and dorsal root ganglion (DRG) stimulation. A few latest SCS modalities are in clinical trial. New approaches to guide lead placement and advances in surgical lead are introduced. HF-10 SCS is free of paresthesia and associated with significantly better coverage of axial lower back pain. Burst stimulation invokes minimal paresthesia and provides better coverage of low back pain. DRG stimulation results in better outcomes in patients with complex regional pain syndrome. It requires less energy and delivers consistent stimulation regardless of postural variations. Clinical trials with new SCS modalities, such as Stimwaves, are under way to make SCS wireless. Intraoperative neuromonitoring and paresthesia atlas may be used to guide lead placement. Multicolumn surgical paddle leads enable a combination of independent current control with up to 32 contacts for better programming and better coverage.	Cellular responses to nerve injury play a central role in the pathogenesis of neuropathic pain. However, the analysis of site specific cellular responses to nerve injury and neuropathic pain is limited to immunohistochemistry staining with numerous limitations. We proposed to apply flow cytometry to overcome some of the limitations and developed two protocols for isolation of cells from small specimens of the sciatic nerve and dorsal root ganglion (DRG) in mice. RESULTS AND COMPARASION WITH EXISTING: methods We found that both the non-enzymatic and enzymatic approaches were highly effective in harvesting a sufficient number of cells for flow cytometry analysis in normal and pathological conditions. The total number of cells in the injury site of the sciatic and its DRGs increased significantly 14days after chronic constriction injury (CCI) of the sciatic nerve, compared to sham surgery control or the contralateral control. The enzymatic approach yielded a significantly higher total number of cells and CD45 negative cells, suggesting that this approach allows for harvest of more resident cells, compared to the non-enzymatic method. The percentage of CD45<sup>+</sup>/CD11b<sup>+</sup> cells was significantly increased in the sciatic nerve but not in the DRG. These results were consistent with both protocols. We thus offer two simple and effective protocols that allow for application of flow cytometry to the investigation of cellular and molecular mechanisms of neuropathic pain.	The current treatment options for neuropathic pain due to nerve injuries are limited and largely unsatisfactory. Mesenchymal stem cell transplantation (MSC) has shown promise as an emerging therapy for neuropathic pain. However, a number of critical parameters, including the sources of cells, the number of cells, and routes of transplantation, need to be elucidated before it can be tested clinically. MSCs were isolated from rat bone marrow (rBM-MSCs) and adipose tissue (rAD-MSCs) and characterized by flow cytometry and functional differentiation. Rats with chronic constriction injury of the sciatic nerve were transplanted either intravenously or intrathecally with rBM-MSCs or rAD-MSCs in two different doses. The effects were evaluated by using paw withdrawal thresholds in response to noxious stimulation. The MSCs labeled with Dil dye were traced. A total of 75 Sprague-Dawley rats were used for these experiments. Both intravenous and intrathecal transplantation of MSCs significantly attenuated neuropathic pain. Comparable results were achieved by either rBM-MSCs or rAD-MSCs. No differences were noted between the two doses of cell transplantation. MSCs were found on the surface of the spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia. The animals did not show any signs of toxicity throughout the whole course of the experiments. Both intravenous and intrathecal MSC transplantations were safe and efficacious and both rBM-MSCs and rAD-MSCs are suitable for transplantation.	Low back pain may arise from disorders of the sacroiliac joint in up to 30% of patients. Radiofrequency ablation (RFA) of the nerves innervating the sacroiliac joint has been shown to be a safe and efficacious strategy. We aimed to develop a new RFA technique to relieve low back pain secondary to sacroiliac joint disorders. Methodology development with validation through prospective observational non-randomized trial (PONRT). Academic multidisciplinary health care system, Ohio, USA. We devised a guide-block to facilitate accurate placement of multiple electrodes to simultaneously ablate the L5 dorsal ramus and lateral branches of the S1, S2, and S3 dorsal rami. This was achieved by bipolar radiofrequency ablation (b-RFA) to create a strip lesion from the lateral border of the base of the sacral superior articular process (L5-S1 facet joint) to the lateral border of the S3 sacral foramen. We applied this technique in 31 consecutive patients and compared the operating time, x-ray exposure time and dose, and clinical outcomes with patients (n = 62) who have been treated with the cooled radiofrequency technique. Patients' level of pain relief was reported as &lt; 50%, 50 - 80%, and &gt; 80% pain relief at one, 3, 6, and 12 months after the procedure. The relationship between RFA technique and duration of pain relief was evaluated using interval-censored multivariable Cox regression. The new technique allowed reduction of operating time by more than 50%, x-ray exposure time and dose by more than 80%, and cost by more than $1,000 per case. The percent of patients who achieved &gt; 50% pain reduction was significantly higher in the b-RFA group at 3, 6, and 12 months follow-up, compared to the cooled radiofrequency group. No complications were observed in either group. Although the major confounding factors were taken into account in the analysis, use of historical controls does not balance observed and unobserved potential confounding variables between groups so that the reported results are potentially confounded. Compared to the cooled radiofrequency ablation (c-RFA) technique, the new b-RFA technique reduced operating time by more than 50%, decreased x-ray exposure by more than 80%, and cut the cost by more than $1000 per case. The new method was associated with significantly improved clinical outcomes despite the limitations of the study design. Thus this new technique appeared to be safe, efficacious, and cost-effective. Key words: Sacroiliac joint pain, sacroiliac joint, low back pain, radiofrequency ablation (RFA), bipolar radiofrequency ablation (b-RFA), cooled radiofrequency ablation (c-RFA), cost-effectiveness.	We demonstrated a combination of pulsed radiofrequency (PRF) and cervical nerve root block (CNRB) via a posterior approach was superior to a transforaminal epidural steroid injection through the anterolateral approach for cervical radicular pain in a previous study. This randomized trial was conducted to determine the comparative efficacy between CNRB, PRF, and CNRB + PRF for cervical radicular pain. A prospective and randomized design was used in this study. Sixty-two patients were randomized into three parallel groups: CNRB, PRF, or CNRB + PRF. Numeric Rating Scale (NRS) was used to measure pain intensity, and global perceived effect (GPE) was scored by the patient on a 7-point scale, ranging from much worse (-3), no change (0), to total improvement (+3). The outcomes were evaluated at 1 week, 1 month, 3 months, and 6 months. Side effects and complications were noted. The NRS was significantly reduced in all three groups 1 week after the treatments (P &lt; 0.001), and the rates of positive GPE (+2 or +3) were not significantly different between the three groups. At 1, 3, and 6 months of follow-ups, the combined therapy achieved significantly lower NRS and higher GPE compared to CNRB or PRF alone group (P &lt; 0.001). There were no significant differences between the CNRB and PRF groups (P &gt; 0.05). No serious complications were observed in any of the patients. Combining CNRB and PRF appeared to be a safe and efficacious technique for cervical radicular pain. The combination therapy yielded better outcomes than either CNRB or PRF alone.
Cherepanova, Olga	Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences	27183216	19168440	30089722	28283548	23912340	17704209	30814500	28920957	25985364	23537062	Although somatic cell activation of the embryonic stem cell (ESC) pluripotency factor OCT4 has been reported, this previous work has been controversial and has not demonstrated a functional role for OCT4 in somatic cells. Here we demonstrate that smooth muscle cell (SMC)-specific conditional knockout of Oct4 in Apoe(-/-) mice resulted in increased lesion size and changes in lesion composition that are consistent with decreased plaque stability, including a thinner fibrous cap, increased necrotic core area, and increased intraplaque hemorrhage. Results of SMC-lineage-tracing studies showed that these effects were probably the result of marked reductions in SMC numbers within lesions and SMC investment within the fibrous cap, which may result from impaired SMC migration. The reactivation of Oct4 within SMCs was associated with hydroxymethylation of the Oct4 promoter and was hypoxia inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α, encoded by HIF1A) and Krüppel-like factor-4 (KLF4)-dependent. These results provide the first direct evidence that OCT4 has a functional role in somatic cells, and they highlight the potential role of OCT4 in normal and diseased somatic cells.	Phenotypic switching of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) is known to play a critical role in the development of atherosclerosis. However, the factors present within lesions that mediate VSMC phenotypic switching are unclear. Oxidized phospholipids (OxPLs), including 1-palmitoyl-2-(5-oxovaleroyl)-sn-glycero-3-phosphorylcholine (POVPC), are active components of minimally modified low density lipoprotein and have been previously shown to induce multiple proatherogenic events in endothelial cells and macrophages, but their effects on VSMCs have been largely unexplored until recently. We previously showed that OxPLs induced phenotypic switching of VSMCs, including suppression of SMC differentiation marker genes. The goal of the present studies was to test the hypothesis that OxPLs alter extracellular matrix production and VSMC migration. Results showed that POVPC activated expression of several extracellular matrix proteins in VSMC. POVPC increased expression of type VIII collagen alpha1 chain (Col8a1) mRNA in cultured VSMCs and in vivo in rat carotid arteries by 9-fold and 4-fold, respectively. POVPC-induced activation of Col8a1 gene expression was reduced by small interfering RNA-mediated suppression of Krüppel-like factor 4 (Klf4) and Sp1, and was abolished in Klf4-knockout VSMCs. POVPC increased Klf4 binding to the Col8a1 gene promoter both in vivo in rat carotid arteries and in cultured VSMCs based on chromatin immunoprecipitation assays. Moreover, POVPC-induced VSMC migration was markedly reduced in Klf4- or type VIII collagen-knockout VSMCs. Given evidence that OxPLs are present within atherosclerotic lesions, it is interesting to suggest that OxPL-induced changes in VSMC phenotype may contribute to the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis at least in part through changes in extracellular matrix composition.	The long-term adverse effects of radiotherapy on cardiovascular disease are well documented. However, the underlying mechanisms responsible for this increased risk are poorly understood. Previous studies using rigorous smooth muscle cell (SMC) lineage tracing have shown abundant SMC investment into atherosclerotic lesions, where SMCs contribute to the formation of a protective fibrous cap. Studies herein tested whether radiation impairs protective adaptive SMC responses during vascular disease. To do this, we exposed SMC lineage tracing (Myh11-ERT2Cre YFP+) mice to lethal radiation (1,200 cGy) followed by bone marrow transplantation prior to atherosclerosis development or vessel injury. Surprisingly, following irradiation, we observed a complete loss of SMC investment in 100% of brachiocephalic artery (BCA), carotid artery, and aortic arch lesions. Importantly, this was associated with a decrease in multiple indices of atherosclerotic lesion stability within the BCA. Interestingly, we observed anatomic heterogeneity, as SMCs accumulated normally into lesions of the aortic root and abdominal aorta, suggesting that SMC sensitivity to lethal irradiation occurs in blood vessels of neural crest origin. Taken together, these results reveal an undefined and unintended variable in previous studies using lethal irradiation and may help explain why patients exposed to radiation have increased risk for cardiovascular disease.	Atherosclerotic plaque rupture with subsequent embolic events is a major cause of sudden death from myocardial infarction or stroke. Although smooth muscle cells (SMCs) produce and respond to collagens in vitro, there is no direct evidence in vivo that SMCs are a crucial source of collagens and that this impacts lesion development or fibrous cap formation. We sought to determine how conditional SMC-specific knockout of collagen type XV (COL15A1) in SMC lineage tracing mice affects advanced lesion formation given that 1) we have previously identified a Col15a1 sequence variant associated with age-related atherosclerosis, 2) COL15A1 is a matrix organizer enhancing tissue structural integrity, and 3) small interfering RNA-mediated Col15a1 knockdown increased migration and decreased proliferation of cultured human SMCs. We hypothesized that SMC-derived COL15A1 is critical in advanced lesions, specifically in fibrous cap formation. Surprisingly, we demonstrated that SMC-specific Col15a1 knockout mice fed a Western diet for 18 wk failed to form advanced lesions. SMC-specific Col15a1 knockout resulted in lesions reduced in size by 78%, with marked reductions in numbers and proliferating SMCs, and lacked a SMC and extracellular matrix-rich lesion or fibrous cap. In vivo RNA-seq analyses on SMC Col15a1 knockout and wild-type lesions suggested that a mechanism for these effects is through global repression of multiple proatherogenic inflammatory pathways involved in lesion development. These results provide the first direct evidence that a SMC-derived collagen, COL15A1, is critical during lesion pathogenesis, but, contrary to expectations, its loss resulted in marked attenuation rather than exacerbation of lesion pathogenesis.NEW &amp; NOTEWORTHY We report the first direct in vivo evidence that a smooth muscle cell (SMC)-produced collagen, collagen type XV (COL15A1), is critical for atherosclerotic lesion development. SMC Col15a1 knockout markedly attenuated advanced lesion formation, likely through reducing SMC proliferation and impairing multiple proatherogenic inflammatory processes.	Smooth muscle cell (SMC) proliferation is a hallmark of vascular injury and disease. Global hypomethylation occurs during SMC proliferation in culture and in vivo during neointimal formation. Regardless of the programmed or stochastic nature of hypomethylation, identifying these changes is important in understanding vascular disease, as maintenance of a cells' epigenetic profile is essential for maintaining cellular phenotype. Global hypomethylation of proliferating aortic SMCs and concomitant decrease of DNMT1 expression were identified in culture during passage. An epigenome screen identified regions of the genome that were hypomethylated during proliferation and a region containing Collagen, type XV, alpha 1 (COL15A1) was selected by 'genomic convergence' for characterization. COL15A1 transcript and protein levels increased with passage-dependent decreases in DNA methylation and the transcript was sensitive to treatment with 5-Aza-2'-deoxycytidine, suggesting DNA methylation-mediated gene expression. Phenotypically, knockdown of COL15A1 increased SMC migration and decreased proliferation and Col15a1 expression was induced in an atherosclerotic lesion and localized to the atherosclerotic cap. A sequence variant in COL15A1 that is significantly associated with atherosclerosis (rs4142986, P = 0.017, OR = 1.434) was methylated and methylation of the risk allele correlated with decreased gene expression and increased atherosclerosis in human aorta. In summary, hypomethylation of COL15A1 occurs during SMC proliferation and the consequent increased gene expression may impact SMC phenotype and atherosclerosis formation. Hypomethylated genes, such as COL15A1, provide evidence for concomitant epigenetic regulation and genetic susceptibility, and define a class of causal targets that sit at the intersection of genetic and epigenetic predisposition in the etiology of complex disease. 	Atherosclerosis is a vascular disease characterized by lipid deposition and inflammation within the arterial wall. Oxidized phospholipids (oxPLs), such as 1-palmitoyl-2-arachidonoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphorylcholine (oxPAPC) and its constituents 1-palmytoyl-2-(5-oxovaleroyl)-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (POVPC) and 1-palmitoyl-2-glutaroyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (PGPC) are concentrated within atherosclerotic lesions and are known to be potent proinflammatory mediators. Phenotypic switching of smooth muscle cells (SMCs) plays a critical role in the development, progression, and end-stage clinical consequences of atherosclerosis, yet little is known regarding the effects of specific oxPLs on SMC phenotype. The present studies were focused on determining whether oxPLs regulate expression of SMC differentiation marker genes and the molecular mechanisms involved. Results showed that POVPC and PGPC induced profound suppression of smooth muscle (SM) alpha-actin and SM myosin heavy chain expression while simultaneously increasing expression of MCP-1, MCP-3, and cytolysin. OxPLs also induced nuclear translocation of Krüppel-like transcription factor 4 (KLF4), a known repressor of SMC marker genes. siRNA targeting of KLF4 nearly blocked POVPC-induced suppression of SMC marker genes, and myocardin. POVPC-induced repression of SMC marker genes was also significantly attenuated in KLF4 knockout SMCs. Taken together, these results suggest a novel role for oxPLs in phenotypic modulation of SMCs and indicate that these effects are dependent on the transcription factor, KLF4. These results may have important novel implications for the mechanisms by which oxPLs contribute to the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis.	The stem cell pluripotency factor Oct4 serves a critical protective role during atherosclerotic plaque development by promoting smooth muscle cell (SMC) investment. Here, we show using Myh11-CreER<sup>T2</sup> lineage-tracing with inducible SMC and pericyte (SMC-P) knockout of Oct4 that Oct4 regulates perivascular cell migration and recruitment during angiogenesis. Knockout of Oct4 in perivascular cells significantly impairs perivascular cell migration, increases perivascular cell death, delays endothelial cell migration, and promotes vascular leakage following corneal angiogenic stimulus. Knockout of Oct4 in perivascular cells also impairs perfusion recovery and decreases angiogenesis following hindlimb ischemia. Transcriptomic analyses demonstrate that expression of the migratory gene Slit3 is reduced following loss of Oct4 in cultured SMCs, and in Oct4-deficient perivascular cells in ischemic hindlimb muscle. Together, these results provide evidence that Oct4 plays an essential role within perivascular cells in injury- and hypoxia-induced angiogenesis.	A deeper understanding of the metastatic process is required for the development of new therapies that improve patient survival. Metastatic tumor cell growth and survival in distant organs is facilitated by the formation of a pre-metastatic niche that is composed of hematopoietic cells, stromal cells and extracellular matrix (ECM). Perivascular cells, including vascular smooth muscle cells (vSMCs) and pericytes, are involved in new vessel formation and in promoting stem cell maintenance and proliferation. Given the well-described plasticity of perivascular cells, we hypothesized that perivascular cells similarly regulate tumor cell fate at metastatic sites. We used perivascular-cell-specific and pericyte-specific lineage-tracing models to trace the fate of perivascular cells in the pre-metastatic and metastatic microenvironments. We show that perivascular cells lose the expression of traditional vSMC and pericyte markers in response to tumor-secreted factors and exhibit increased proliferation, migration and ECM synthesis. Increased expression of the pluripotency gene Klf4 in these phenotypically switched perivascular cells promoted a less differentiated state, characterized by enhanced ECM production, that established a pro-metastatic fibronectin-rich environment. Genetic inactivation of Klf4 in perivascular cells decreased formation of a pre-metastatic niche and metastasis. Our data revealed a previously unidentified role for perivascular cells in pre-metastatic niche formation and uncovered novel strategies for limiting metastasis.	Previous studies investigating the role of smooth muscle cells (SMCs) and macrophages in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis have provided controversial results owing to the use of unreliable methods for clearly identifying each of these cell types. Here, using Myh11-CreER(T2) ROSA floxed STOP eYFP Apoe(-/-) mice to perform SMC lineage tracing, we find that traditional methods for detecting SMCs based on immunostaining for SMC markers fail to detect &gt;80% of SMC-derived cells within advanced atherosclerotic lesions. These unidentified SMC-derived cells exhibit phenotypes of other cell lineages, including macrophages and mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). SMC-specific conditional knockout of Krüppel-like factor 4 (Klf4) resulted in reduced numbers of SMC-derived MSC- and macrophage-like cells, a marked reduction in lesion size, and increases in multiple indices of plaque stability, including an increase in fibrous cap thickness as compared to wild-type controls. On the basis of in vivo KLF4 chromatin immunoprecipitation-sequencing (ChIP-seq) analyses and studies of cholesterol-treated cultured SMCs, we identified &gt;800 KLF4 target genes, including many that regulate pro-inflammatory responses of SMCs. Our findings indicate that the contribution of SMCs to atherosclerotic plaques has been greatly underestimated, and that KLF4-dependent transitions in SMC phenotype are critical in lesion pathogenesis. 	Xenotropic Murine leukemia virus-Related Virus (XMRV) is a γ-retrovirus initially reported to be present within familial human prostate tumors and the blood of patients with chronic fatigue syndrome. Subsequent studies however were unable to replicate these findings, and there is now compelling evidence that the virus evolved through rare retroviral recombination events in human tumor cell lines established through murine xenograft experiments. There is also no direct evidence that XMRV infection has any functional effects that contribute to tumor pathogenesis. Herein we describe an additional xenotropic MLV, &quot;B4rv&quot;, found in a cell line derived from xenograft experiments with the human prostate cancer LNCaP cell line. When injected subcutaneously in nude mice, LNCaP cells infected with XMRV or B4rv formed larger tumors that were highly hemorrhagic and displayed poor pericyte/smooth muscle cell (SMC) investment, markers of increased metastatic potential. Conditioned media derived from XMRV- or B4rv-infected LNCaPs, but not an amphotropic MLV control virus infected LNCaPs, profoundly decreased expression of marker genes in cultured SMC, consistent with inhibition of SMC differentiation/maturation. Similar effects were seen with a chimeric virus of the amphotropic MLV control virus containing the XMRV env gene, but not with an XMRV chimeric virus containing the amphotropic MLV env gene. UV-inactivated XMRV and pseudovirions that were pseudotyped with XMRV envelope protein also produce conditioned media that down-regulated SMC marker gene expression in vitro. Together these results indicate that xenotropic MLV envelope proteins are sufficient to induce the production of factors by tumor cells that suppress vascular SMC differentiation, providing evidence for a novel mechanism by which xenotropic MLVs might alter tumor pathogenesis by disrupting tumor vascular maturation. Although it is highly unlikely that either XMRV or B4Rv themselves infect humans and are pathogenic, the results suggest that xenograft approaches commonly used in the study of human cancer promote the evolution of novel retroviruses with pathogenic properties.
Chung, Mina	Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences	31216884	29038104	27139902	26258174	25779222	25552627	25523945	25221331	24831860	24793801	Cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) has significant nonresponse rates. We assessed whether machine learning (ML) could predict CRT response beyond current guidelines. We analyzed CRT patients from Cleveland Clinic and Johns Hopkins. A training cohort was created from all Johns Hopkins patients and an equal number of randomly sampled Cleveland Clinic patients. All remaining patients comprised the testing cohort. Response was defined as ≥10% increase in left ventricular ejection fraction. ML models were developed to predict CRT response using different combinations of classification algorithms and clinical variable sets on the training cohort. The model with the highest area under the curve was evaluated on the testing cohort. Probability of response was used to predict survival free from a composite end point of death, heart transplant, or placement of left ventricular assist device. Predictions were compared with current guidelines. Nine hundred twenty-five patients were included. On the training cohort (n=470: 235, Johns Hopkins; 235, Cleveland Clinic), the best ML model was a naive Bayes classifier including 9 variables (QRS morphology, QRS duration, New York Heart Association classification, left ventricular ejection fraction and end-diastolic diameter, sex, ischemic cardiomyopathy, atrial fibrillation, and epicardial left ventricular lead). On the testing cohort (n=455, Cleveland Clinic), ML demonstrated better response prediction than guidelines (area under the curve, 0.70 versus 0.65; P=0.012) and greater discrimination of event-free survival (concordance index, 0.61 versus 0.56; P&lt;0.001). The fourth quartile of the ML model had the greatest risk of reaching the composite end point, whereas the first quartile had the least (hazard ratio, 0.34; P&lt;0.001). ML with 9 variables incrementally improved prediction of echocardiographic CRT response and survival beyond guidelines. Performance was not improved by incorporating more variables. The model offers potential for improved shared decision-making in CRT (online calculator: http://riskcalc.org:3838/CRTResponseScore ). Significant remaining limitations confirm the need to identify better variables to predict CRT response.	Although dofetilide labeling states that the drug must be initiated or reinitiated with continuous electrocardiographic monitoring and in the presence of trained personnel, the risks of dofetilide reloading justifying repeat hospitalization have not been investigated. Patients admitted for dofetilide reloading for atrial arrhythmias were retrospectively reviewed. The need for dose adjustment and the incidence of torsades de pointes (TdP) were identified. The incidence of TdP in dofetilide reloading was compared with patients admitted for dofetilide initial loading. Of 138 patients admitted for dofetilide reloading for atrial arrhythmias, 102 were reloaded at a previously tolerated dose, 30 with a higher dose from a previously tolerated dose and 2 at a lower dose; prior dosage was unknown in 4 patients. Dose adjustment or discontinuation was required in 44 patients (31.9%). No TdP occurred in the same dose reloading group, but TdP occurred in 2 patients admitted to increase dofetilide dosage (0% versus 6.7%; P=0.050). Dofetilide dose adjustment or discontinuation was required in 30 of 102 patients (29.4%) reloaded at a previously tolerated dose and in 11 of 30 patients (36.7%) admitted for an increase in dose. Although no TdP occurred in patients admitted to reload dofetilide at the same dose as previously tolerated, dosage adjustments or discontinuation was frequent and support the need for hospitalization for dofetilide reloading. Patients admitted for reloading with a higher dose tended to be at higher risk for TdP than patients reloaded at a prior tolerated dose.	Atrial fibrillation (AF) is a common clinical arrhythmia that appears to be highly heritable, despite representing a complex interplay of several disease processes that generally do not manifest until later in life. In this manuscript, we will review the genetic basis of this complex trait established through studies of familial AF, linkage and candidate gene studies of common AF, genome wide association studies (GWAS) of common AF, and transcriptomic studies of AF. Since AF is associated with a five-fold increase in the risk of stroke, we also review the intersection of common genetic factors associated with both of these conditions. Similarly, we highlight the intersection of common genetic markers associated with some risk factors for AF, such as hypertension and obesity, and AF. Lastly, we describe a paradigm where genetic factors predispose to the risk of AF, but which may require additional stress and trigger factors in older age to allow for the clinical manifestation of AF.	Rhythm control with antiarrhythmic drugs (AADs) is not superior to rate control in patients with heart failure (HF) and atrial fibrillation (AF), but AF ablation may be more successful at achieving rhythm control than AADs. However, risks for both ablation and AADs are likely higher and success rates lower in patients with HF. To compare rate control versus AF catheter ablation strategies in patients with AF and HF. We conducted a meta-analysis of trials which randomized HF patients (LVEF&lt;50%) with AF to a rate control or AF catheter ablation strategy and reported change in LVEF, quality of life, 6-minute walk test, or peak oxygen consumption. Study quality and heterogenity were assessed using Jadad scores and Cochran's Q statistics, respectively. Mantel Haenszel relative risks and mean differences were calculated using random effect models. Four trials (N=224) met inclusion criteria; 82.5% (n=185) had persistent AF. AF ablation was associated with an increase in LVEF (mean difference 8.5%; 95%CI 6.4,10.7%; P&lt;0.001) compared to rate control. AF ablation was superior in improving quality of life by Minnesota Living with Heart Failure (MLWHF) questionnaire scores (mean difference -11.9; 95%CI -17.1, -6.6; P&lt;0.001). Peak oxygen consumption and 6-minute walk distance increased in AF ablation compared to rate control patients (mean difference 3.2; 95%CI 1.1,5.2; P=0.003; mean difference 34.8; 95%CI 2.9, 66.7; P = 0.03, respectively). In the persistent AF subgroup LVEF and MLWHF were significantly improved with AF ablation. Major adverse event rates (RR 1.3; 95% CI, 0.4, 3.9; p=0.64) were not significantly different. No significant heterogeneity was evident. In patients with HF and AF, AF catheter ablation is superior to rate control in improving LVEF, quality of life and functional capacity. Prior to accepting a rate control strategy in HF patients with persistent or drug refractory AF, consideration should be given to AF ablation.	Stress and anxiety are potential consequences from arrhythmias and implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) shocks that can contribute to substantial morbidity. We assessed anxiety associated with an ICD and whether cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) reduces anxiety. The study consisted of two parts: part 1 (N = 690) was a prospective cross-sectional observational study of consecutive ICD patients. Patients completed the Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI), Generalized Anxiety Disorder Scale (GAD-7), Florida Shock Anxiety Scale (FSAS), and Florida Patient Acceptance Survey (FPAS) psychometric tests. Part 2 (N = 29) was a pilot randomized controlled trial of CBT (three sessions in 3 months) vs. usual care (UC) in patients with BAI ≥ 19 from part 1. The median BAI and GAD-7 scores were 5 and 2, respectively. By BAI scores, 64.5 % had minimal and 3.9 % had severe anxiety. By GAD-7 scores, 73.0 % had low probability of anxiety and 2.9 % had high anxiety. Higher anxiety levels were associated with recent (p = 0.017) and total number of shocks (p = 0.002). Any shock was associated with fear about shocks (FSAS, p &lt; 0.001) and reduced patient ICD acceptance (FPAS, p = 0.019). In the pilot trial of CBT, median BAI scores decreased from 24.5 to 11 at 1 year (p = 0.031) in the CBT group and GAD-7 scores from 12.5 to 7 (p = 0.063); no significant changes in anxiety scores were observed in the UC group. Severe anxiety was present in a small proportion of ICD patients, but higher anxiety was associated with recent and total number of shocks. The small pilot study suggested that a simple program of CBT might lower moderate-high anxiety with lasting effects to 1 year and supports the need for a larger trial to validate these results. ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT00851071. URL: http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT00851071?term=anxiety+in+icd+patients+cleveland+clinic&amp;rank=1.	When considering anticoagulant therapy for patients with atrial fibrillation, one must balance the reduction in risk of thromboembolism that this therapy offers against the risk of bleeding that it poses. The American Heart Association, American College of Cardiology, and Heart Rhythm Society updated their atrial fibrillation guidelines in 2014. This review outlines a rationale for clinical decision-making based on the new guidelines and summarizes the currently approved drugs. 	Prior transcriptional studies of atrial fibrillation (AF) have been limited to specific transcripts, animal models, chronic AF, right atria, or small samples. We sought to characterize the left atrial transcriptome in human AF to distinguish changes related to AF susceptibility and persistence. Left atrial appendages from 239 patients stratified by coronary artery disease, valve disease, and AF history (no history of AF, AF history in sinus rhythm at surgery, and AF history in AF at surgery) were selected for genome-wide mRNA microarray profiling. Transcripts were examined for differential expression with AF phenotype group. Enrichment in differentially expressed genes was examined in 3 gene set collections: a transcription factor collection, defined by shared conserved cis-regulatory motifs, a miRNA collection, defined by shared 3' untranslated region motifs, and a molecular function collection, defined by shared Gene Ontology molecular function. AF susceptibility was associated with decreased expression of the targets of CREB/ATF family, heat-shock factor 1, ATF6, SRF, and E2F1 transcription factors. Persistent AF activity was associated with decreased expression in genes and gene sets related to ion channel function consistent with reported functional changes. AF susceptibility was associated with decreased expression of targets of several transcription factors related to inflammation, oxidation, and cellular stress responses. In contrast, changes in ion channel expression were associated with AF activity but were limited in AF susceptibility. Our results suggest that significant transcriptional remodeling marks susceptibility to AF, whereas remodeling of ion channel expression occurs later in the progression or as a consequence of AF.	Identifying factors predictive of mortality may be important to decrease risk associated with cardiac implantable electrical device (CIED) replacement procedures. This study aimed to determine whether clinical factors and complications independently associate with death and to develop a mortality risk prediction tool after CIED replacement. The prospective REPLACE Registry determined 6-month complication and mortality rates after CIED replacement with or without planned lead addition or revision. Vital status was collected. Kaplan-Meier survival and multivariable Cox proportional hazards regression analyses were performed to identify patient, procedural, or complication variables predictive of death. The REPLACE DARE (Death After Replacement Evaluation) Score was constructed using hazard ratios, reflecting relative risk contributions of each variable, combined into an additive mortality risk score equation. At 6 months, 70 of 1744 (4.0%) patients had died. Cox regression analysis found no significant association between major complications and death. However, recent heart failure admission, New York Heart Association class III/IV, antiarrhythmic drug use, cerebrovascular disease, and chronic kidney disease stage were independently associated with 6-month mortality. The REPLACE DARE Score was 2.0±1.4 in survivors versus 3.5±1.8 in nonsurvivors (P&lt;0.001), with predictive receiver operating characteristic value=0.758 (P&lt;0.001). Risk of death was 1.0% for DARE=0 and 55.6% for DARE=7. The hazard ratio was 1.8 for each change of 1 DARE unit. Comorbidities, but not complications, were significantly associated with mortality after CIED replacement. The REPLACE DARE Score is a novel tool that can identify patients with substantial mortality risk. Such patients should have the relative risk and benefit of their procedure considered carefully. http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00395447.	Despite sparse clinical data, current atrial fibrillation (AF) guidelines favor amiodarone as a drug of choice for patients with left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH). This study tested the hypothesis that patients with persistent AF and LVH on nonamiodarone antiarrhythmics have higher mortality compared to patients on amiodarone. In an observational cohort analysis of patients who underwent cardioversion for AF, patients with LVH, defined as left ventricular wall thickness ≥1.4 cm, by echocardiogram prior to their first cardioversion, were included; clinical data, including antiarrhythmic drugs and ejection fraction (LVEF), were collected. Mortality, determined via the Social Security Death Index, was analyzed using Kaplan-Meier and Cox proportional hazards models to determine whether antiarrhythmic drugs were associated with higher mortality. In 3,926 patients, echocardiographic wall thickness was available in 1,399 (age 66.8 ± 11.8 years, 67% male, LVEF 46 ± 15%, septum 1.3 ± 0.4, posterior wall 1.2 ± 0.2 cm), and 537 (38%) had LVH ≥1.4 cm. Among 537 patients with LVH, mean age was 67.5 ± 11.7 years, 76.4% were males, and mean LVEF was 48.3 ± 13.3%. Amiodarone was associated with lower survival (log rank P = 0.001), including after adjusting for age, LVEF, and coronary artery disease (P = 0.023). In propensity-score matched cohorts with LVH treated with no drugs, nonamiodarone antiarrhythmic drugs (non-AADs), or amiodarone (N = 65 each group), there was early lower survival in patients on amiodarone (P = 0.05). Patients with persistent AF and LVH on non-AADs do not have higher mortality compared to patients on amiodarone. Importantly, these findings do not support amiodarone as a superior choice in patients with LVH.	The wearable cardioverter defibrillator (WCD) is an option for external monitoring and defibrillation in patients at risk for sudden cardiac arrest caused by ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation and who are not candidates for or who refuse an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD). WCDs provide monitoring with backup defibrillation protection. WCDs have been used when a patient's condition delays or prohibits ICD implantation, or as a bridge when an indicated ICD must be explanted. WCDs are used for primary prevention of sudden cardiac death during high-risk gap periods early after myocardial infarction, coronary revascularization, or new diagnosis of heart failure. 
Claesen, Jan	Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences	30244719	26376792	25079685	25053784	25036635	21421760	20805503	20351769	30389766	26876034	The impact of antiseptics on the skin microbiota is poorly understood. SanMiguel et al. (2018) use a sequencing-based approach to compare treatment effects and find that they are dependent on interpersonal and body site-specific community differences. While treatment results in an immediate depletion of the skin microbiota, not all bacterial families are affected equally.	Recent advances in genome sequencing, combined with bioinformatic analysis, has led to the identification of numerous novel natural product gene clusters, particularly in actinomycetes of terrestrial and marine origin. Many of these gene clusters encode uncharacterised Type III polyketide synthases. To facilitate the study of these genes and their potentially novel products, we set out to construct an actinomycete expression host specifically designed for the heterologous expression of Type III PKS genes and their gene clusters. A derivative of Streptomyces coelicolor A3(2) designed for the expression of Type III polyketide synthase (PKS) genes was constructed from the previously engineered expression strain S. coelicolor M1152 [Δact Δred Δcpk Δcda rpoB(C1298T)] by removal of all three of the endogenous Type III PKS genes (gcs, srsA, rppA) by PCR targeting. The resulting septuple deletion mutant, M1317, proved to be an effective surrogate host for the expression of actinobacterial Type III PKS genes: expression of the reintroduced gcs gene from S. coelicolor and of the heterologous rppA gene from Streptomyces venezuelae under the control of the constitutive ermE* promoter resulted in copious production of germicidin and flaviolin, respectively. The newly constructed expression host S. coelicolor M1317 should be particularly useful for the discovery and analysis of new Type III polyketide metabolites.	Synthetic cell therapy is a field that has broad potential for future applications in human disease treatment. Next generation therapies will consist of engineered bacterial strains capable of diagnosing disease, producing and delivering therapeutics, and controlling their numbers to meet containment and safety concerns. A thorough understanding of the microbial ecology of the human body and the interaction of the microbes with the immune system will benefit the choice of an appropriate chassis that engrafts stably and interacts productively with the resident community in specific body niches.	The majority of bacteria detected in the nostril microbiota of most healthy adults belong to three genera: Propionibacterium, Corynebacterium, and Staphylococcus. Among these staphylococci is the medically important bacterium Staphylococcus aureus. Almost nothing is known about interspecies interactions among bacteria in the nostrils. We observed that crude extracts of cell-free conditioned medium from Propionibacterium spp. induce S. aureus aggregation in culture. Bioassay-guided fractionation implicated coproporphyrin III (CIII), the most abundant extracellular porphyrin produced by human-associated Propionibacterium spp., as a cause of S. aureus aggregation. This aggregation response depended on the CIII dose and occurred during early stationary-phase growth, and a low pH (~4 to 6) was necessary but was not sufficient for its induction. Additionally, CIII induced plasma-independent S. aureus biofilm development on an abiotic surface in multiple S. aureus strains. In strain UAMS-1, CIII stimulation of biofilm depended on sarA, a key biofilm regulator. This study is one of the first demonstrations of a small-molecule-mediated interaction among medically relevant members of the nostril microbiota and the first description of a role for CIII in bacterial interspecies interactions. Our results indicate that CIII may be an important mediator of S. aureus aggregation and/or biofilm formation in the nostril or other sites inhabited by Propionibacterium spp. and S. aureus. Importance: Very little is known about interspecies interactions among the bacteria that inhabit the adult nostril, including Staphylococcus aureus, a potential pathogen that colonizes about a quarter of adults. We demonstrated that coproporphyrin III (CIII), a diffusible small molecule excreted by nostril- and skin-associated Propionibacterium spp., induces S. aureus aggregation in a manner dependent on dose, growth phase, and pH. CIII also induces S. aureus to form a plasma-independent surface-attached biofilm. This report is the first description of a role for CIII in bacterial interspecies interactions at any human body site and a novel demonstration that nostril microbiota physiology is influenced by small-molecule-mediated interactions.	Although biosynthetic gene clusters (BGCs) have been discovered for hundreds of bacterial metabolites, our knowledge of their diversity remains limited. Here, we used a novel algorithm to systematically identify BGCs in the extensive extant microbial sequencing data. Network analysis of the predicted BGCs revealed large gene cluster families, the vast majority uncharacterized. We experimentally characterized the most prominent family, consisting of two subfamilies of hundreds of BGCs distributed throughout the Proteobacteria; their products are aryl polyenes, lipids with an aryl head group conjugated to a polyene tail. We identified a distant relationship to a third subfamily of aryl polyene BGCs, and together the three subfamilies represent the largest known family of biosynthetic gene clusters, with more than 1,000 members. Although these clusters are widely divergent in sequence, their small molecule products are remarkably conserved, indicating for the first time the important roles these compounds play in Gram-negative cell biology.	Our recent identification and genetic analysis of the biosynthetic gene cluster for production of the ribosomally synthesized and posttranslationally modified peptide cypemycin revealed a new class of peptide natural products, the linaridins. Here we describe the identification and characterization of grisemycin, a linaridin produced by a previously unidentified gene cluster in Streptomyces griseus IFO 13350. Mass spectrometric analysis revealed that grisemycin possesses at least three of the modifications found in cypemycin, as well as an analogous leader peptidase cleavage site. Expression of putative grisemycin biosynthetic genes in a Streptomyces coelicolor A3(2) derivative, combined with deletion of the gene encoding the grisemycin precursor peptide, confirmed the identity of the grisemycin gene cluster. Both grisemycin and cypemycin depend on the transcriptional activator AdpA for wild-type levels of production.	Posttranslational modification of amino acids confers a range of structural features and activities on ribosomally synthesized peptides, many of which have potent antimicrobial or other biological activities. Cypemycin is an extensively modified linear peptide produced by Streptomyces sp. OH-4156 with potent in vitro activity against mouse leukemia cells. Cypemycin does not contain lanthionine bridges but exhibits some of the structural features of lantibiotics, notably dehydrated threonines (dehydrobutyrines) and a C-terminal S-[(Z)-2-aminovinyl]-D-cysteine. Consequently it was classified as a member of the lantibiotic family of posttranslationally modified peptides. Cypemycin also possesses two L-allo-isoleucine residues and an N-terminal N,N-dimethylalanine, both unique amino acid modifications. We identified and heterologously expressed the cypemycin biosynthetic gene cluster and performed a mutational analysis of each individual gene. We show that even the previously described modifications are carried out by unusual enzymes or via a modification pathway unrelated to lantibiotic biosynthesis. Bioinformatic analysis revealed the widespread occurrence of cypemycin-like gene clusters within the bacterial kingdom and in the Archaea. Cypemycin is the founding member of an unusual class of posttranslationally modified ribosomally synthesized peptides, the linaridins.	Lantibiotic synthetases are remarkable biocatalysts generating conformationally constrained peptides with a variety of biological activities by repeatedly utilizing two simple posttranslational modification reactions: dehydration of Ser/Thr residues and intramolecular addition of Cys thiols to the resulting dehydro amino acids. Since previously reported lantibiotic synthetases show no apparent homology with any other known protein families, the molecular mechanisms and evolutionary origin of these enzymes are unknown. In this study, we present a novel class of lanthionine synthetases, termed LanL, that consist of three distinct catalytic domains and demonstrate in vitro enzyme activity of a family member from Streptomyces venezuelae. Analysis of individually expressed and purified domains shows that LanL enzymes install dehydroamino acids via phosphorylation of Ser/Thr residues by a protein kinase domain and subsequent elimination of the phosphate by a phosphoSer/Thr lyase domain. The latter has sequence homology with the phosphothreonine lyases found in various pathogenic bacteria that inactivate host mitogen activated protein kinases. A LanC-like cyclase domain then catalyzes the addition of Cys residues to the dehydro amino acids to form the characteristic thioether rings. We propose that LanL enzymes have evolved from stand-alone protein Ser/Thr kinases, phosphoSer/Thr lyases, and enzymes catalyzing thiol alkylation. We also demonstrate that the genes for all three pathways to lanthionine-containing peptides are widespread in Nature. Given the remarkable efficiency of formation of lanthionine-containing polycyclic peptides and the latter's high degree of specificity for their cognate cellular targets, it is perhaps not surprising that (at least) three distinct families of polypeptide sequences have evolved to access this structurally and functionally diverse class of compounds.	A mechanistic understanding of microbe-host interactions is critical to developing therapeutic strategies for targeted modulation of the host immune system. Different members of the gut symbiont species Lactobacillus reuteri modulate host health by, for example, reduction of intestinal inflammation. Previously, it was shown that L. reuteri activates the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR), a ligand-activated transcription factor that plays an important role in the mucosal immune system, by the production of tryptophan catabolites. Here, we identified a novel pathway by which L. reuteri activates AhR, which is independent of tryptophan metabolism. We screened a library of 36 L. reuteri strains and determined that R2lc and 2010, strains with a pigmented phenotype, are potent AhR activators. By whole-genome sequencing and comparative genomics, we identified genes unique to R2lc and 2010. Our analyses demonstrated that R2lc harbors two genetically distinct polyketide synthase (PKS) clusters, functionally unknown (fun) and pks, each carried by a multicopy plasmid. Inactivation of pks, but not fun, abolished the ability of R2lc to activate AhR. L. reuteri 2010 has a gene cluster homologous to the pks cluster in R2lc with an identical gene organization, which is also responsible for AhR activation. In conclusion, we identified a novel PKS pathway in L. reuteri R2lc and 2010 that is responsible for AhR activation.IMPORTANCE Temporary changes in the composition of the microbiota, for example, by oral administration of probiotics, can modulate the host immune system. However, the underlying mechanisms by which probiotics interact with the host are often unknown. Here, we show that Lactobacillus reuteri R2lc and 2010 harbor an orthologous PKS gene cluster that activates the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR). AhR is a ligand-activated transcription factor that plays a key role in a variety of diseases, including amelioration of intestinal inflammation. Understanding the mechanism by which a bacterium modulates the immune system is critical for applying rational selection strategies for probiotic supplementation. Finally, heterologous and/or optimized expression of PKS is a logical next step toward the development of next-generation probiotics to prevent and treat disease.	Bacterial genomes encode the biosynthetic potential to produce hundreds of thousands of complex molecules with diverse applications, from medicine to agriculture and materials. Accessing these natural products promises to reinvigorate drug discovery pipelines and provide novel routes to synthesize complex chemicals. The pathways leading to the production of these molecules often comprise dozens of genes spanning large areas of the genome and are controlled by complex regulatory networks with some of the most interesting molecules being produced by non-model organisms. In this Review, we discuss how advances in synthetic biology--including novel DNA construction technologies, the use of genetic parts for the precise control of expression and for synthetic regulatory circuits--and multiplexed genome engineering can be used to optimize the design and synthesis of pathways that produce natural products.
Comhair, Suzy	Inflammation and Immunity	30376852	26048149	25488689	22427538	21572527	19634987	15883124	15743779	15650397	12114185	Aspirin-exacerbated respiratory disease (AERD) is a distinct eosinophilic phenotype of severe asthma with accompanying chronic rhinosinusitis, nasal polyposis, and hypersensitivity to aspirin. Urinary 3-bromotyrosine (uBrTyr) is a noninvasive marker of eosinophil-catalyzed protein oxidation. The lack of in vitro diagnostic test makes the diagnosis of AERD difficult. We aimed to determine uBrTyr levels in patients with AERD (n = 240) and aspirin-tolerant asthma (ATA) (n = 226) and to assess whether its addition to urinary leukotriene E4 (uLTE4) levels and blood eosinophilia can improve the prediction of AERD diagnosis. Clinical data, spirometry and blood eosinophilis were evaluated. UBrTyr and uLTE4 levels were measured in urine by HPLC and ELISA, respectively. Both groups of asthmatics (AERD, n = 240; ATA, n = 226) had significantly higher uBrTyr, uLTE4 levels, and blood eosinophils than healthy controls (HC) (n = 71) (p &lt; 0.05). ULTE4 levels and blood eosinophils were significantly higher in AERD as compared to ATA (p = 0.004, p &lt; 0.0001, respectively). whereas uBrTyr levels were not significantly different between both asthma phenotypes (p = 0.34). Asthmatics with high levels of uBrTyr (&gt; 0.101 ng/mg Cr), uLTE4 levels (&gt; 800 pg/mg Cr) and blood eosinophils (&gt; 300 cells/ul) were 7 times more likely to have AERD.. However, uBrTyr did not increase the benefit for predicting AERD when uLTE4 and blood eosinophils were already taken into account (p = 0.57). UBrTyr levels are elevated both in AERD and ATA as compared to HC, but they could not differentiate between these asthma phenotypes suggesting a similar eosinophilic activation. The addition of uBrTyr to elevated uLTE4 levels and blood eosinophils did not statistically enhance the prediction of AERD diagnosis.	Metabolomics, the quantification of small biochemicals in plasma and tissues, can provide insight into complex biochemical processes and enable the identification of biomarkers that may serve as therapeutic targets. We hypothesized that the plasma metabolome of asthma would reveal metabolic consequences of the specific immune and inflammatory responses unique to endotypes of asthma. The plasma metabolomic profiles of 20 asthmatic subjects and 10 healthy controls were examined using an untargeted global and focused metabolomic analysis. Individuals were classified based on clinical definitions of asthma severity or by levels of fraction of exhaled NO (FENO), a biomarker of airway inflammation. Of the 293 biochemicals identified in the plasma, 25 were significantly different among asthma and healthy controls (p &lt; 0.05). Plasma levels of taurine, lathosterol, bile acids (taurocholate and glycodeoxycholate), nicotinamide, and adenosine-5-phosphate were significantly higher in asthmatics compared with healthy controls. Severe asthmatics had biochemical changes related to steroid and amino acid/protein metabolism. Asthmatics with high FENO, compared with those with low FENO, had higher levels of plasma branched-chain amino acids and bile acids. Asthmatics have a unique plasma metabolome that distinguishes them from healthy controls and points to activation of inflammatory and immune pathways. The severe asthmatic and high FENO asthmatic have unique endotypes that suggest changes in NO-associated taurine transport and bile acid metabolism. 	Asthma is a heterogeneous disease with different phenotypes. Inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) therapy is a mainstay of treatment for asthma, but the clinical response to ICSs is variable. We hypothesized that a panel of inflammatory biomarkers (ie, fraction of exhaled nitric oxide [Feno], sputum eosinophil count, and urinary bromotyrosine [BrTyr] level) might predict steroid responsiveness. The original study from which this analysis originates comprised 2 phases: a steroid-naive phase 1 and a 28-day trial of ICSs (phase 2) during which Feno values, sputum eosinophil counts, and urinary BrTyr levels were measured. The response to ICSs was based on clinical improvements, including a 12% or greater increase in FEV1, a 0.5-point or greater decrease in Asthma Control Questionnaire score, and 2 doubling dose or greater increase in provocative concentration of adenosine 5'-monophosphate causing a 20% decrease in FEV1 (PC20AMP). Healthy control subjects were also evaluated in this study for comparison of biomarkers with those seen in asthmatic patients. Asthmatic patients had higher than normal Feno values, sputum eosinophil counts, and urinary BrTyr levels during the steroid-naive phase and after ICS therapy. After 28-day trial of ICSs, Feno values decreased in 82% of asthmatic patients, sputum eosinophil counts decreased in 60%, and urinary BrTyr levels decreased in 58%. Each of the biomarkers at the steroid-naive phase had utility for predicting steroid responsiveness, but the combination of high Feno values and high urinary BrTyr levels had the best power (13.3-fold, P &lt; .01) to predict a favorable response to ICS therapy. However, the magnitude of the decrease in biomarker levels was unrelated to the magnitude of clinical response to ICS therapy. A noninvasive panel of biomarkers in steroid-naive asthmatic patients predicts clinical responsiveness to ICS therapy.	Pulmonary endothelial functions are critical to maintain the low pressure of the pulmonary circulation and effective diffusion capacity of the lung. To investigate pulmonary endothelial cell biology in healthy or diseased lungs, we developed methods to harvest and culture pure populations of primary pulmonary arterial endothelial cells and microvascular endothelial cells from human lung explanted at time of transplantation or from donor lungs not used in transplantation. The purity and characteristics of cultured endothelial cells is ascertained by morphologic criteria using phase contrast and electron microscopy; phenotypic expression profile for endothelial specific proteins such as endothelial nitric oxide synthase, platelet/endothelial cell adhesion molecule, and von Willbrand factor; and endothelial function assays such as Dil-acetylated low-density lipoprotein uptake and tube formation. This detailed method provides researchers with the ability to establish cells for molecular, genetic, and biochemical investigation of human pulmonary vascular diseases.	Environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) has adverse effects on the health of asthmatics, however the harmful consequences of ETS in relation to asthma severity are unknown. In a multicenter study of severe asthma, we assessed the impact of ETS exposure on morbidity, health care utilization and lung functions; and activity of systemic superoxide dismutase (SOD), a potential oxidative target of ETS that is negatively associated with asthma severity. From 2002-2006, 654 asthmatics (non-severe 366, severe 288) were enrolled, among whom 109 non-severe and 67 severe asthmatics were routinely exposed to ETS as ascertained by history and validated by urine cotinine levels. ETS-exposure was associated with lower quality of life scores; greater rescue inhaler use; lower lung function; greater bronchodilator responsiveness; and greater risk for emergency room visits, hospitalization and intensive care unit admission. ETS-exposure was associated with lower levels of serum SOD activity, particularly in asthmatic women of African heritage. ETS-exposure of asthmatic individuals is associated with worse lung function, higher acuity of exacerbations, more health care utilization, and greater bronchial hyperreactivity. The association of diminished systemic SOD activity to ETS exposure provides for the first time a specific oxidant mechanism by which ETS may adversely affect patients with asthma.	An imbalance in reducing and oxidizing (redox) systems favoring a more oxidative environment is present in asthma and linked to the pathophysiology of the defining symptoms and signs including airflow limitation, hyper-reactivity, and airway remodeling. High levels of hydrogen peroxide, nitric oxide ((*)NO), and 15-F(2t)-isoprostane in exhaled breath, and excessive oxidative protein products in lung epithelial lining fluid, peripheral blood, and urine provide abundant evidence for pathologic oxidizing processes in asthma. Parallel studies document loss of reducing potential by nonenzymatic and enzymatic antioxidants. The essential first line antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutases (SOD) and catalase are reduced in asthma as compared to healthy individuals, with lowest levels in those patients with the most severe asthma. Loss of SOD and catalase activity is related to oxidative modifications of the enzymes, while other antioxidant gene polymorphisms are linked to susceptibility to develop asthma. Monitoring of exhaled (*)NO has entered clinical practice because it is useful to optimize asthma care, and a wide array of other biochemical oxidative and nitrative biomarkers are currently being evaluated for asthma monitoring and phenotyping. Novel therapeutic strategies that target correction of redox abnormalities show promise for the treatment of asthma.	Increased oxidative stress and decreased superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity in the asthmatic airway are correlated to airflow limitation and hyperreactivity. We hypothesized that asthmatic individuals with higher levels of oxidative stress may have greater loss of SOD activity, which would be reflected systemically in loss of circulating SOD activity and clinically by development of severe asthma and/or worsening airflow limitation. To investigate this, serum SOD activity and proteins, the glutathione peroxidase/glutathione antioxidant system, and oxidatively modified amino acids were measured in subjects with asthma and healthy control subjects. SOD activity, but not Mn-SOD or Cu,Zn-SOD protein, was lower in asthmatic serum as compared with control, and activity loss was significantly related to airflow limitation. Further, serum SOD activity demonstrated an inverse correlation with circulating levels of 3-bromotyrosine, a posttranslational modification of proteins produced by the eosinophil peroxidase system of eosinophils. Exposure of purified Cu,Zn-SOD to physiologically relevant levels of eosinophil peroxidase-generated reactive brominating species, reactive nitrogen species, or tyrosyl radicals in vitro confirmed that eosinophil-derived oxidative pathways promote enzyme inactivation. These findings are consistent with greater oxidant stress in asthma leading to greater inactivation of SOD, which likely amplifies inflammation and progressive airflow obstruction.	Airway hyperresponsiveness and remodeling are defining features of asthma. We hypothesized that impaired superoxide dismutase (SOD) antioxidant defense is a primary event in the pathophysiology of hyperresponsiveness and remodeling that induces apoptosis and shedding of airway epithelial cells. Mechanisms leading to apoptosis were studied in vivo and in vitro. Asthmatic lungs had increased apoptotic epithelial cells compared to controls as determined by terminal dUTP nick-end labeling-positive cells. Apoptosis was confirmed by the finding that caspase-9 and -3 and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase were cleaved. On the basis that SOD inactivation triggers cell death and low SOD levels occur in asthma, we tested whether SOD inactivation plays a role in airway epithelial cell death. SOD inhibition increased cell death and cleavage/activation of caspases in bronchial epithelial cells in vitro. Furthermore, oxidation and nitration of MnSOD were identified in the asthmatic airway, correlating with physiological parameters of asthma severity. These findings link oxidative and nitrative stress to loss of SOD activity and downstream events that typify asthma, including apoptosis and shedding of the airway epithelium and hyperresponsiveness.	Reactive oxygen species and reactive nitrogen species are mediators of lung tissue damage. To minimize the effect of oxidative stress, the lung is well equipped with an integrated antioxidant system. In some circumstances, antioxidants increase in response to oxidants and reduce tissue injury. The lung is somewhat unique in that it has an extracellular surface, which is often directly exposed to oxidative stresses. In this context, the extracellular antioxidant system, comprised primarily of glutathione and glutathione peroxidase, is especially important in protecting against oxidant injury. Induction of extracellular glutathione peroxidase occurs in airway inflammation and undoubtedly plays an important defense against oxidative injury to the airway surface.	Reactive oxygen species (ROS) and reactive nitrogen species (RNS) are generated throughout the human body. Enzymatic and nonenzymatic antioxidants detoxify ROS and RNS and minimize damage to biomolecules. An imbalance between the production of ROS and RNS and antioxidant capacity leads to a state of &quot;oxidative stress&quot; that contributes to the pathogenesis of a number of human diseases by damaging lipids, protein, and DNA. In general, lung diseases are related to inflammatory processes that generate increased ROS and RNS. The susceptibility of the lung to oxidative injury depends largely on its ability to upregulate protective ROS and RNS scavenging systems. Unfortunately, the primary intracellular antioxidants are expressed at low levels in the human lung and are not acutely induced when exposed to oxidative stresses such as cigarette smoke and hyperoxia. However, the response of extracellular antioxidant enzymes, the critical primary defense against exogenous oxidative stress, increases rapidly and in proportion to oxidative stress. In this paper, we review how antioxidants in the lung respond to oxidative stress in several lung diseases and focus on the mechanisms that upregulate extracellular glutathione peroxidase.
Crabb, John	Ophthalmic Research	26305875	24799364	24098476	22876128	21917933	20412794	20238042	20177130	19435712	19202148	Uveal melanoma is the most common malignancy of the adult eye. The overall mortality rate is high because this aggressive cancer often metastasizes before ophthalmic diagnosis. Quantitative proteomic analysis of primary metastasizing and non-metastasizing tumors was pursued for insights into mechanisms and biomarkers of uveal melanoma metastasis. Eight metastatic and 7 non-metastatic human primary uveal melanoma tumors were analyzed by LC MS/MS iTRAQ technology with Bruch's membrane/choroid complex from normal postmortem eyes as control tissue. Tryptic peptides from tumor and control proteins were labeled with iTRAQ tags, fractionated by cation exchange chromatography, and analyzed by LC MS/MS. Protein identification utilized the Mascot search engine and the human Uni-Prot/Swiss-Protein database with false discovery ≤ 1%; protein quantitation utilized the Mascot weighted average method. Proteins designated differentially expressed exhibited quantitative differences (p ≤ 0.05, t-test) in a training set of five metastatic and five non-metastatic tumors. Logistic regression models developed from the training set were used to classify the metastatic status of five independent tumors. Of 1644 proteins identified and quantified in 5 metastatic and 5 non-metastatic tumors, 12 proteins were found uniquely in ≥ 3 metastatic tumors, 28 were found significantly elevated and 30 significantly decreased only in metastatic tumors, and 31 were designated differentially expressed between metastatic and non-metastatic tumors. Logistic regression modeling of differentially expressed collagen alpha-3(VI) and heat shock protein beta-1 allowed correct prediction of metastasis status for each of five independent tumor specimens. The present data provide new clues to molecular differences in metastatic and non-metastatic uveal melanoma tumors. While sample size is limited and validation required, the results support collagen alpha-3(VI) and heat shock protein beta-1 as candidate biomarkers of uveal melanoma metastasis and establish a quantitative proteomic database for uveal melanoma primary tumors.	The formation of extracellular deposits known as drusen below the macular region of the retina correlates with increased risk of severe visual loss from age-related macular degeneration (AMD). Inflammation and complement dysregulation contribute to AMD progression; however, disease mechanisms remain incompletely defined. Multiple genetic and environmental factors influence AMD pathology, and although immune system processes play a central role, multiple molecular mechanisms appear to be involved. Drusen proteomics, including the analyses of constituent proteins, oxidative protein modifications, and pattern recognition receptors, provide a foundation for deciphering mechanisms of drusen biogenesis and AMD pathology. 	Carboxyethylpyrrole (CEP) adducts are oxidative modifications derived from docosahexaenoate-containing lipids that are elevated in ocular tissues and plasma in age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and in rodents exposed to intense light. The goal of this study was to determine whether light-induced CEP adducts and autoantibodies are modulated by pretreatment with AL-8309A under conditions that prevent photo-oxidative damage of rat retina. AL-8309A is a serotonin 5-HT1A receptor agonist. Albino rats were dark adapted prior to blue light exposure. Control rats were maintained in normal cyclic light. Rats were injected subcutaneously 3x with 10 mg/kg AL-8309A (2 days, 1 day and 0 hours) before light exposure for 6 h (3.1 mW/cm(2), λ=450 nm). Animals were sacrificed immediately following light exposure and eyes, retinas and plasma were collected. CEP adducts and autoantibodies were quantified by Western analysis or ELISA. ANOVA supported significant differences in mean amounts of CEP adducts and autoantibodies among the light + vehicle, light + drug and dark control groups from both retina and plasma. Light-induced CEP adducts in retina were reduced ~20% following pretreatment with AL-8309A (n = 62 rats, p = 0.006) and retinal CEP immunoreactivity was less intense by immunohistochemistry. Plasma levels of light-induced CEP adducts were reduced at least 30% (n = 15 rats, p = 0.004) by drug pretreatment. Following drug treatment, average CEP autoantibody titer in light exposed rats (n = 22) was unchanged from dark control levels, and ~20% (p = 0.046) lower than in vehicle-treated rats. Light-induced CEP adducts in rat retina and plasma were significantly decreased by pretreatment with AL-8309A. These results are consistent with and extend previous studies showing AL-8309A reduces light-induced retinal lesions in rats and support CEP biomarkers as possible tools for monitoring the efficacy of select therapeutics.	Glucocorticoids (GCs) are common anti-inflammatory agents that can cause ocular hypertension and secondary glaucoma as a consequence of impaired aqueous humor outflow through the trabecular meshwork (TM). Mechanisms of GC-signaling are complex and poorly understood. To better understand GC-signaling in the eye, we tested the hypothesis that common mechanisms of steroid responsiveness exist in TM cells from normal and glaucomatous donors. Four primary cultures of human TM cells from normal and glaucomatous donors were treated with or without dexamethasone (Dex) for 10 days, then cellular proteins were extracted, identified and quantified by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC MS/MS) iTRAQ (isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation) technology. A total of 718 proteins were quantified. Dex-treatment significantly altered the abundance of 40 proteins in ≥3 cell samples, 37 of which have not previously been associated with GC-signaling in TM cells. Most steroid responsive proteins were changed in all four TM cells analyzed, both normal and glaucomatous. GC-induced proteomic changes support remodeling of the extracellular matrix, disorganization of the cytoskeleton/cell-cell interactions, and mitochondrial dysfunction. Such physiologic consequences appear common to those induced in TM cells by transforming growth factor-β(2), another putative contributor to ocular hypertension and glaucoma pathology. The results expand the repertoire of TM proteins involved in GC-signaling, demonstrate common consequences of GC-signaling in normal and glaucomatous TM cells, and reveal similarities in proteomic changes induced by steroids and TGFβ(2) in normal and glaucomatous TM cells. Finally, the data contributes to a TM quantitative proteomic database.	Transforming growth factor beta 2 (TGFβ₂) is often elevated in the aqueous humor (AH) and trabecular meshwork (TM) of patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and appears to contribute to POAG pathogenesis. To better understand TGFβ₂ signaling in the eye, TGFβ₂-induced proteomic changes were identified in cells cultured from the TM, a tissue involved in intraocular pressure (IOP) elevation in glaucoma. Primary cultures of human TM cells from four donors were treated with or without TGFβ₂ (5 ng/mL) for 48 hours; then cellular protein was analyzed by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry iTRAQ (isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation) technology. A total of 853 proteins were quantified. TGFβ₂ treatment significantly altered the abundance of 47 proteins, 40 of which have not previously been associated with TGFβ₂ signaling in the eye. More than half the 30 elevated proteins support growing evidence that TGFβ₂ induces extracellular matrix remodeling and abnormal cytoskeletal interactions in the TM. The levels of 17 proteins were reduced, including four cytoskeletal and six regulatory proteins. Both elevated and decreased regulatory proteins implicate TGFβ₂-altered processes involving transcription, translation, and the glutamate/glutamine cycle. Altered levels of eight mitochondrial proteins support TGFβ₂-induced mitochondrial dysfunction in the TM that in POAG could contribute to oxidative damage in the AH outflow pathway, TM senescence, and elevated IOP. The results expand the repertoire of proteins known to participate in TGFβ₂ signaling, provide new molecular insight into POAG, and establish a quantitative proteomics database for the TM that includes candidate glaucoma biomarkers for future validation studies.	Quantitative proteomic analysis was pursued of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) from rats with unilateral experimental glaucoma. RGCs were isolated from 22 animals by immunopanning after 8 weeks of sustained elevated intraocular pressure. Proteins were quantified by LC MS/MS iTRAQ technology. Of the 268 proteins quantified, approximately 8% appeared elevated and approximately 13% decreased in glaucomatous RGCs. Voltage-dependent anion channel protein 2, aldose reductase, and ubiquitin were among the significantly elevated proteins while prothymosin was among the significantly decreased. The results demonstrate the feasibility of identifying global proteomic differences in protein expression between purified glaucomatous and control in vivo RGCs.	Toward early detection of susceptibility to age-related macular degeneration (AMD), we quantified plasma carboxyethylpyrrole (CEP) oxidative protein modifications and CEP autoantibodies by ELISA in 916 AMD and 488 control donors. Mean CEP adduct and autoantibody levels were elevated in AMD plasma by ∼60 and ∼30%, respectively, and the odds ratio for both CEP markers elevated was ∼3-fold greater in AMD than in control patients. Genotyping was performed for AMD risk polymorphisms associated with age-related maculopathy susceptibility 2 (ARMS2), high-temperature requirement factor A1 (HTRA1), complement factor H (CFH), and complement C3. The AMD risk predicted for those exhibiting elevated CEP markers and risk genotypes was 2- to 3-fold greater than the risk based on genotype alone. AMD donors carrying the ARMS2 and HTRA1 risk alleles were the most likely to exhibit elevated CEP markers. Receiver operating characteristic curves suggest that CEP markers alone can discriminate between AMD and control plasma donors with ∼76% accuracy and in combination with genomic markers, provide up to ∼80% discrimination accuracy. CEP plasma biomarkers, particularly in combination with genomic markers, offer a potential early warning system for predicting susceptibility to this blinding disease.	A quantitative proteomics analysis of the macular Bruch membrane/choroid complex was pursued for insights into the molecular mechanisms of age-related macular degeneration (AMD). Protein in trephine samples from the macular region of 10 early/mid-stage dry AMD, six advanced dry AMD, eight wet AMD, and 25 normal control post-mortem eyes was analyzed by LC MS/MS iTRAQ (isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation) technology. A total of 901 proteins was quantified, including 556 proteins from &gt; or =3 AMD samples. Most proteins differed little in amount between AMD and control samples and therefore reflect the proteome of normal macular tissues of average age 81. A total of 56 proteins were found to be elevated and 43 were found to be reduced in AMD tissues relative to controls. Analysis by category of disease progression revealed up to 16 proteins elevated or decreased in each category. About 60% of the elevated proteins are involved in immune response and host defense, including many complement proteins and damage-associated molecular pattern proteins such as alpha-defensins 1-3, protein S100s, crystallins, histones, and galectin-3. Four retinoid processing proteins were elevated only in early/mid-stage AMD, supporting a role for retinoids in AMD initiation. Proteins uniquely decreased in early/mid-stage AMD implicate hematologic malfunctions and weakened extracellular matrix integrity and cellular interactions. Galectin-3, a receptor for advanced glycation end products, was the most significantly elevated protein in advanced dry AMD, supporting a role for advanced glycation end products in dry AMD progression. The results endorse inflammatory processes in both early and advanced AMD pathology, implicate different pathways of progression to advanced dry and wet AMD, and provide a new database for hypothesis-driven and discovery-based studies of AMD.	Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) causes severe vision loss in the elderly; early identification of AMD risk could help slow or prevent disease progression. Toward the discovery of AMD biomarkers, we quantified plasma protein N(epsilon)-carboxymethyllysine (CML) and pentosidine from 58 AMD and 32 control donors. CML and pentosidine are advanced glycation end products that are abundant in Bruch membrane, the extracellular matrix separating the retinal pigment epithelium from the blood-bearing choriocapillaris. We measured CML and pentosidine by LC-MS/MS and LC-fluorometry, respectively, and found higher mean levels of CML (approximately 54%) and pentosidine (approximately 64%) in AMD (p &lt; 0.0001) relative to normal controls. Plasma protein fructosyl-lysine, a marker of early glycation, was found by amino acid analysis to be in equal amounts in control and non-diabetic AMD donors, supporting an association between AMD and increased levels of CML and pentosidine independent of other diseases like diabetes. Carboxyethylpyrrole (CEP), an oxidative modification from docosahexaenoate-containing lipids and also abundant in AMD Bruch membrane, was elevated approximately 86% in the AMD cohort, but autoantibody titers to CEP, CML, and pentosidine were not significantly increased. Compellingly higher mean levels of CML and pentosidine were present in AMD plasma protein over a broad age range. Receiver operating curves indicate that CML, CEP adducts, and pentosidine alone discriminated between AMD and control subjects with 78, 79, and 88% accuracy, respectively, whereas CML in combination with pentosidine provided approximately 89% accuracy, and CEP plus pentosidine provided approximately 92% accuracy. Pentosidine levels appeared slightly altered in AMD patients with hypertension and cardiovascular disease, indicating further studies are warranted. Overall this study supports the potential utility of plasma protein CML and pentosidine as biomarkers for assessing AMD risk and susceptibility, particularly in combination with CEP adducts and with concurrent analyses of fructosyl-lysine to detect confounding factors.	Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a progressive disease and major cause of severe visual loss. Toward the discovery of tools for early identification of AMD susceptibility, we evaluated the combined predictive capability of proteomic and genomic AMD biomarkers. We quantified plasma carboxyethylpyrrole (CEP) oxidative protein modifications and CEP autoantibodies by ELISA in 916 AMD and 488 control donors. CEP adducts are uniquely generated from oxidation of docosahexaenoate-containing lipids that are abundant in the retina. Mean CEP adduct and autoantibody levels were found to be elevated in AMD plasma by approximately 60 and approximately 30%, respectively. The odds ratio for both CEP markers elevated was 3-fold greater or more in AMD than in control patients. Genotyping was performed for AMD risk polymorphisms associated with age-related maculopathy susceptibility 2 (ARMS2), high temperature requirement factor A1 (HTRA1), complement factor H, and complement C3, and the risk of AMD was predicted based on genotype alone or in combination with the CEP markers. The AMD risk predicted for those exhibiting elevated CEP markers and risk genotypes was 2-3-fold greater than the risk based on genotype alone. AMD donors carrying the ARMS2 and HTRA1 risk alleles were the most likely to exhibit elevated CEP markers. The results compellingly demonstrate higher mean CEP marker levels in AMD plasma over a broad age range. Receiver operating characteristic curves suggest that CEP markers alone can discriminate between AMD and control plasma donors with approximately 76% accuracy and in combination with genomic markers provide up to approximately 80% discrimination accuracy. Plasma CEP marker levels were altered slightly by several demographic and health factors that warrant further study. We conclude that CEP plasma biomarkers, particularly in combination with genomic markers, offer a potential early warning system for assessing susceptibility to this blinding, multifactorial disease.
Cresci, Gail	Inflammation and Immunity	30621265	30211234	29874807	29385239	28737582	28333199	28087985	27540042	25855578	26919968	Gut dysbiosis and altered short-chain fatty acids are associated with ethanol-induced liver injury. SCFA are fermentation byproducts of the gut microbiota known to have many beneficial biological effects. We tested if a designer synbiotic could protect against ethanol-induced gut-liver injury. C57BL/6 female mice were exposed to chronic-binge ethanol feeding consisting of ethanol (5% vol/vol) for 10 days, followed by a single gavage (5 g/kg body weight) 6 h before euthanasia. A group of mice also received oral supplementation daily with a designer synbiotic, and another group received fecal slurry (FS); control animals received saline. Control mice were isocalorically substituted maltose dextran for ethanol over the entire exposure period. Ethanol exposure reduced expression of tight junction proteins in the proximal colon and induced hepatocyte injury and steatosis. Synbiotic supplementation not only mitigated losses in tight junction protein expression, but also prevented ethanol-induced steatosis and hepatocyte injury. Ethanol exposure also increased hepatic inflammation and oxidative stress, which was also attenuated by synbiotic supplementation. Mice receiving FS were not protected from ethanol-induced liver injury or steatosis. Results were associated with luminal SCFA levels and SCFA transporter expression in the proximal colon and liver. These results indicate supplementation with a designer synbiotic is effective in attenuating chronic-binge ethanol-induced gut-liver injury and steatosis in mice, and highlight the beneficial effects of the gut microbial fermentation byproducts.	Excessive ethanol consumption causes adverse effects and contributes to organ dysfunction. Ethanol metabolism triggers oxidative stress, altered immune function, and gut dysbiosis. The gut microbiome is known to contribute to the maintenance of intestinal homeostasis, and disturbances are associated with pathology. A consequence of gut dysbiosis is also alterations in its metabolic and fermentation byproducts. The gut microbiota ferments undigested dietary polysaccharides to yield short-chain fatty acids, predominantly acetate, propionate, and butyrate. Butyrate has many biological mechanisms of action including anti-inflammatory and immunoprotective effects, and its depletion is associated with intestinal injury. We previously showed that butyrate protects gut-liver injury during ethanol exposure. While the intestine is the largest immune organ in the body, little is known regarding the effects of ethanol on intestinal immune function. This work is aimed at investigating the effects of butyrate supplementation, in the form of the structured triglyceride tributyrin, on intestinal innate immune responses and oxidative stress following chronic-binge ethanol exposure in mice. Our work suggests that tributyrin supplementation preserved immune responses and reduced oxidative stress in the proximal colon during chronic-binge ethanol exposure. Our results also indicate a possible involvement of tributyrin in maintaining the integrity of intestinal villi vasculature disrupted by chronic-binge ethanol exposure.	Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the leading cause of chronic liver disease, with prevalence increasing in parallel with the rising incidence in obesity. Believed to be a &quot;multiple-hit&quot; disease, several factors contribute to NAFLD initiation and progression. Of these, the gut microbiome is gaining interest as a significant factor in NAFLD prevalence. In this paper, we provide an in-depth review of the progression of NAFLD, discussing the mechanistic modes of hepatocyte injury and the potential role for manipulation of the gut microbiome as a therapeutic strategy in the prevention and treatment of NAFLD.	Clostridium difficile (CD) infection (CDI) increases patient morbidity, mortality and healthcare costs. Antibiotic treatment induces gut dysbiosis and is both a major risk factor for CD colonization and treatment of CDI. Probiotics have been trialed to support commensal gut microbiota and reduce CDI. This study investigated commensal microbe Faecalibacterium prausnitzii (FP) and a prebiotic, both known to yield butyrate and be anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory, on CD colonization and gut integrity in mice. Mice were randomly grouped and supplemented daily with FP, prebiotic, FP + prebiotic, FP/prebiotic supernatant, or saline throughout the entire study. Following treatment with clindamycin for 3 days, mice were exposed to CD. Feces were collected at baseline, the day after antibiotic, and 1, 3, and 5 days after CD exposure and cultured for bacterial overgrowth and CD colonization. On days 1 and 5 after CD exposure, mice were randomly euthanized, and proximal colon was dissected for histological analysis and preparation of RNA for analysis of proinflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines. Although all mice exhibited bacterial overgrowth and CD colonization, bacterial burden resolved quicker in the FP + prebiotic group. This was associated with induction and resolution of innate immune responses, anion exchanger, and tight junction protein preservation in proximal colon. CD toxin virulence potential was questionable as expression of CD toxin B receptor was depleted in the FP + prebiotic group. Supplementation with anti-inflammatory butyrate-supporting commensal bacteria and prebiotic may support innate immune responses and minimize bacterial burden and negative effects during antibiotic and CD exposure.	Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is the most common functional gastrointestinal disorder (FGID) encountered by the pediatrician and consultant. The primary focus of this review is to provide an update on beneficial nutritional interventions for managing this patient population with discussion on gut microbiome effects. A common complaint among the pediatric population is IBS-related recurrent abdominal pain. The prevalence of IBS is estimated to range between 6 and 14% and is defined by the Rome III criteria for FGIDs. Recent studies highlight the role of nutritional interventions in mitigating symptoms of IBS. Although eliminating foods that aggravate IBS gastrointestinal symptoms have become a main nutritional approach for acute management of IBS, recent literature reflects how this may impact the gut microbiome and potentially have long-term implications. There are emerging studies suggesting IBS symptomatic improvement with different dietary interventions in the pediatric population, but most of what is known at this time has been extrapolated from the adult literature.	Campylobacter jejuni frequently infects humans causing many gastrointestinal symptoms, fever, fatigue and several long-term debilitating diseases. Current treatment for campylobacteriosis includes rehydration and in some cases, antibiotic therapy. Probiotics are used to treat several gastrointestinal diseases. Butyrate is a short-chain fatty acid known to promote intestinal health. Interaction of butyrate with its respective receptor (HCAR2) and transporter (SLC5A8), both expressed in the intestine, is associated with water and electrolyte absorption as well as providing defense against colon cancer and inflammation. Alterations in gut microbiota influence the presence of HCAR2 and SLC5A8 in the intestine. We hypothesized that adherence and/or invasion of C. jejuni and alterations in HCAR2 and SLC5A8 expression would be minimized with butyrate or Lactobacillus GG (LGG) pretreatment of Caco-2 cells. We found that both C. jejuni adhesion but not invasion was reduced with butyrate pretreatment. While LGG pretreatment did not prevent C. jejuni adhesion, it did result in reduced invasion which was associated with altered cell supernate pH. Both butyrate and LGG protected HCAR2 and SLC5A8 protein expression following C. jejuni infection. These results suggest that the first stages of C. jejuni infection of Caco-2 cells may be minimized by LGG and butyrate pretreatment.	Impaired gut-liver axis is a potential factor contributing to alcoholic liver disease. Ethanol depletes intestinal integrity and causes gut dysbiosis. Butyrate, a fermentation byproduct of gut microbiota, is altered negatively following chronic ethanol exposure. This study aimed to determine whether prophylactic tributyrin could protect the intestinal barrier and liver in mice during combined chronic-binge ethanol exposure. C57BL/6J mice exposed to 5% v/v ethanol-containing diet for 10 days received a single ethanol gavage (5 g/kg) 9 h before euthanasia. Control mice were isocalorically pair-fed maltose dextrin for ethanol. Diets were supplemented (5 mM) with tributyrin or glycerol. Intestine and liver disease activity was assessed histologically. Protein and mRNA expression of tight junction (TJ) proteins, toll-like receptors, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha were assessed. Caco-2 monolayers with or without ethanol exposure and/or sodium butyrate were used to test butyrate's direct effects on intestinal integrity. Chronic-binge ethanol feeding impaired intestinal TJ protein co-localization staining; however, tributyrin co-treatment mitigated these effects. Ethanol depleted TJ and transepithelial electrical resistance in Caco-2 monolayers, but butyrate co-treatment reduced these effects. Hepatic toll-like receptor mRNA expression and tumor necrosis factor-alpha protein expression was induced by ethanol; however, the response was significantly dampened in mice co-treated with tributyrin. Tributyrin altered localization of both neutrophils and single hepatocyte death: Leukocytes and apoptotic hepatocytes localized predominantly around the portal tract in ethanol-only treated mice, whereas localization predominated around the central vein in ethanol-tributyrin mice. Prophylactic tributyrin supplementation mitigated effects of combined chronic-binge ethanol exposure on disruption of intestinal TJ localization and intestinal permeability and liver injury.	Reducing hospital readmissions decreases healthcare costs and improves quality of care. There are no published studies examining the rate of, and risk factors for, 30-day readmissions for patients discharged with home parenteral support (HPS). Determine the rate of 30-day readmissions for patients discharged with HPS and whether malnutrition and other demographic or clinical factors increase the risk. Retrospective review of patients discharged with HPS from the Cleveland Clinic between July 1, 2013, and June 30, 2014, and followed by the Cleveland Clinic Home Nutrition Support Service. Of the 224 patients studied, 31.6% (n = 71) had unplanned readmissions within 30 days of hospital discharge. Of these, 21.1% (n = 15) were HPS related, with catheter-related bloodstream infection (n = 5) and dehydration (n = 5) the most common. The majority of patients (84.4%) were diagnosed with malnutrition, but the presence or degree did not influence the readmission rate ( P = .41). According to univariable analysis, patients with an ostomy ( P = .037), a small bowel resection ( P = .002), a higher HPS volume at discharge ( P &lt; .001), and a shorter period between HPS consult and hospital discharge ( P &lt; .026) had a lower risk of 30-day readmission than their counterparts. On multivariable analysis, patients had a higher risk of 30-day readmission if they had a history of heart disease ( P = .048) and for every 1-unit increase in white blood cells ( P = .026). Patients discharged with HPS have a high 30-day readmission rate, although most readmissions were not related to the HPS itself. The presence and degree of malnutrition were not associated with 30-day readmissions.	The Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics and American Society the Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition (ASPEN) Consensus Statement recommends a standardized set of diagnostic characteristics to identify adult malnutrition. Due to lack of a consensus definition and challenges with measurements, physical function or performance has traditionally been difficult to assess. The purpose of this study was to determine whether manual muscle testing (MMT) performed by registered dietitians (RDs) can be used as a surrogate measurement of muscle strength and function in hospitalized patients. Patients admitted to the heart failure service on the cardiac stepdown units at the Cleveland Clinic Main Campus in Cleveland, Ohio, were eligible for the study, and those who met the inclusion criteria underwent handgrip strength (HGS) testing and evaluation of nutrition status using the Academy/ASPEN Characteristics Recommended for the Identification of Adult Malnutrition. MMT was then performed within 24 hours by a different study investigator blinded to the HGS and malnutrition assessment results. It was found that HGS and MMT overall were in agreement for 84% of patients and that MMT had a high sensitivity (98%) but low specificity (13%). This study shows feasibility for RDs to perform MMT on patients to determine muscle strength and functioning. Future practice application may be to incorporate MMT into screening criteria for patients being evaluated for malnutrition and reserve HGS testing only for patients with an abnormal MMT.	Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) develops in approximately 20% of alcoholic patients, with a higher prevalence in females. ALD progression is marked by fatty liver and hepatocyte necrosis, as well as apoptosis, inflammation, regenerating nodules, fibrosis, and cirrhosis.(1) ALD develops via a complex process involving parenchymal and nonparenchymal cells, as well as recruitment of other cell types to the liver in response to damage and inflammation. Hepatocytes are damaged by ethanol, via generation of reactive oxygen species and induction of endoplasmic reticulum stress and mitochondrial dysfunction. Hepatocyte cell death via apoptosis and necrosis are markers of ethanol-induced liver injury. We review the mechanisms by which alcohol injures hepatocytes and the response of hepatic sinusoidal cells to alcohol-induced injury. We also discuss how recent insights into the pathogenesis of ALD will affect the treatment and management of patients. 
Dalton, Jarrod	Quantitative Health Sciences	29710255	29175048	28847012	27636569	27185687	27050445	25852080	24911906	23503367	22847754	NA	NA	Inequality in health outcomes in relation to Americans' socioeconomic position is rising. First, to evaluate the spatial relationship between neighborhood disadvantage and major atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD)-related events; second, to evaluate the relative extent to which neighborhood disadvantage and physiologic risk account for neighborhood-level variation in ASCVD event rates. Observational cohort analysis of geocoded longitudinal electronic health records. A single academic health center and surrounding neighborhoods in northeastern Ohio. 109 793 patients from the Cleveland Clinic Health System (CCHS) who had an outpatient lipid panel drawn between 2007 and 2010. The date of the first qualifying lipid panel served as the study baseline. Time from baseline to the first occurrence of a major ASCVD event (myocardial infarction, stroke, or cardiovascular death) within 5 years, modeled as a function of a locally derived neighborhood disadvantage index (NDI) and the predicted 5-year ASCVD event rate from the Pooled Cohort Equations Risk Model (PCERM) of the American College of Cardiology and American Heart Association. Outcome data were censored if no CCHS encounters occurred for 2 consecutive years or when state death data were no longer available (that is, from 2014 onward). The PCERM systematically underpredicted ASCVD event risk among patients from disadvantaged communities. Model discrimination was poorer among these patients (concordance index [C], 0.70 [95% CI, 0.67 to 0.74]) than those from the most affluent communities (C, 0.80 [CI, 0.78 to 0.81]). The NDI alone accounted for 32.0% of census tract-level variation in ASCVD event rates, compared with 10.0% accounted for by the PCERM. Patients from affluent communities were overrepresented. Outcomes of patients who received treatment for cardiovascular disease at Cleveland Clinic were assumed to be independent of whether the patients came from a disadvantaged or an affluent neighborhood. Neighborhood disadvantage may be a powerful regulator of ASCVD event risk. In addition to supplemental risk models and clinical screening criteria, population-based solutions are needed to ameliorate the deleterious effects of neighborhood disadvantage on health outcomes. The Clinical and Translational Science Collaborative of Cleveland and National Institutes of Health.	NA	To determine the number of difficult airway (DA) carts required based on the number of anesthetising locations and patients risk of DA. Binomial distributions. Various hypothetical settings and patient cohorts. Binomial distributions were used to calculate the number of distinct combinations of DAs by number of anesthetising locations assuming an average risk of 10%. The 'at least' number of DAs was calculated using cumulative probabilities of having exactly two plus more than 2 DAs up to the total number of simultaneously started anesthetising locations or until the cumulative probability exceeds the 50% threshold, therefore being more likely than not. The probability of encountering concurrent DAs increases as the number of simultaneously started anesthetising locations increases. For at least 2 concurrent DAs, the probability first exceeds 50% at 17 locations. The corresponding thresholds for at least 3 and 4 concurrent DAs, are 27 and 37 locations respectively. The probability of at least 2 concurrent DAs will exceed 50% when approximately 17 anesthetising sites are started simultaneously and a 10% worst case risk is assumed. With continuing resource constraints, proper planning of human and capital resources for DAs needs to be addressed without compromising patient safety. It is recommended that every block of 15-20 sites be equipped with a DA cart, that anaesthesia groups develop and rehearse DA algorithms with available equipment, and that preoperative anaesthesia clinics be used to identify DA therefore providing logistical leverage.	While substantial practice variation in coronary revascularization has been described and deviation from clinical practice guidelines has been associated with worse outcomes, the degree to which this is driven by flawed decision making and/or appropriate deviation associated with comorbid conditions is unknown. We evaluated heterogeneity in procedure use, and the extent to which hospital-level practice variation is related to surgical mortality. We analyzed data on 554,563 inpatients undergoing either percutaneous coronary intervention or coronary artery bypass grafting at 391 centers in 6 states. Procedure-specific risk models were developed based on demographics and comorbidities, allowing for differential effects of comorbidities for each sex. For each patient, the revascularization procedure that minimized predicted probability of inhospital mortality was designated as the model-preferred procedure.Hospital-level discordance rates-the proportion of cases in each hospital for which the opposite from the model-preferred procedure was performed-were calculated. Hierarchical linear models were used to analyze the relationship between HDRs and hospital-level risk-standardized mortality ratios (RSMRs). Comorbidities and demographics alone explained between 68% and 86% of overall variation in inhospital mortality (corresponding C-statistics of 0.84-0.93). The mean (SD) HDR was 26.3% (9.6%). There was a positive independent association between HDRs and inhospital mortality, with a 10% increase in HDR associated with an 11% increase in RSMR (P&lt;0.001). Variance in procedure use according to model preference was strongly associated with worse outcomes. A systematic approach to incorporating comorbidity as part of the decision-making process for coronary revascularization is needed.	Randomized trials provide strong evidence regarding efficacy of interventions but are limited in their capacity to address potential heterogeneity in effectiveness within broad clinical populations. For example, a treatment that on average is superior may be distinctly worse in certain patients. We propose a technique for using large electronic health registries to develop and validate decision models that measure-for distinct combinations of covariate values-the difference in predicted outcomes among 2 alternative treatments. We demonstrate the methodology in a prototype analysis of in-hospital mortality under alternative revascularization treatments. First, we developed prediction models for a binary outcome of interest for each treatment. Decision criteria were then defined based on the treatment-specific model predictions. Patients were then classified as receiving concordant or discordant care (in relation to the model recommendation), and the association between discordance and outcomes was evaluated. We then present alternative decision criteria and validation methodologies, as well as sensitivity analyses that investigate 1) the imbalance between treatments on observed covariates and 2) the aggregate impact of unobserved covariates. Our methodology supplements population-average clinical trial results by modeling heterogeneity in outcomes according to specific covariate values. It thus allows for assessment of current practice, from which cogent hypotheses for improved care can be derived. Newly emerging large population registries will allow for accurate predictions of outcome risk under competing treatments, as complex functions of predictor variables. Whether or not the models might be used to inform decision making depends on the extent to which important predictors are available. Further work is needed to understand the strengths and limitations of this approach, particularly in relation to those based on randomized trials.	NA	Benchmarking performance across hospitals requires proper adjustment for differences in baseline patient and procedural risk. Recently, a Risk Stratification Index was developed from Medicare data, which used all diagnosis and procedure codes associated with each stay, but did not distinguish present-on-admission (POA) diagnoses from hospital-acquired diagnoses. We sought to (1) develop and validate a risk index for in-hospital mortality using only POA diagnoses, principal procedures, and secondary procedures occurring before the date of the principal procedure (POARisk) and (2) compare hospital performance metrics obtained using the POARisk model with those obtained using a similarly derived model which ignored the timing of diagnoses and procedures (AllCodeRisk). We used the 2004-2009 California State Inpatient Database to develop, calibrate, and prospectively test our models (n = 24 million). Elastic net logistic regression was used to estimate the two risk indices. Agreement in hospital performance under the two respective risk models was assessed by comparing observed-to-expected mortality ratios; acceptable agreement was predefined as the AllCodeRisk-based observed-to-expected ratio within ± 20% of the POARisk-based observed-to-expected ratio for more than 95% of hospitals. After recalibration, goodness of fit (i.e., model calibration) within the 2009 data was excellent for both models. C-statistics were 0.958 and 0.981, respectively, for the POARisk and AllCodeRisk models. The AllCodeRisk-based observed-to-expected ratio was within ± 20% of the POARisk-based observed-to-expected ratio for 89% of hospitals, which was slightly lower than the predefined limit of agreement. Consideration of POA coding meaningfully improved hospital performance measurement. The POARisk model should be used for risk adjustment when POA data are available.	Calibration in binary prediction models, that is, the agreement between model predictions and observed outcomes, is an important aspect of assessing the models' utility for characterizing risk in future data. A popular technique for assessing model calibration first proposed by D. R. Cox in 1958 involves fitting a logistic model incorporating an intercept and a slope coefficient for the logit of the estimated probability of the outcome; good calibration is evident if these parameters do not appreciably differ from 0 and 1, respectively. However, in practice, the form of miscalibration may sometimes be more complicated. In this article, we expand the Cox calibration model to allow for more general parameterizations and derive a relative measure of miscalibration between two competing models from this more flexible model. We present an example implementation using data from the US Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality.
Dana, Hod	Neurosciences	30956633	30308007	28824341	27011354	25250714	24898000	23482141	22825176	21445129	30361563	Toxoplasmosis is considered as one of the most prevalent human parasitic infections that can be transmitted from mother to the fetus. The onset of toxoplasmosis during pregnancy has clinical complications including spontaneous abortion, preterm labor, stillbirth and fetal abnormalities. The aim of this study was to investigate the prevalence of Toxoplasmosis infection in pregnant women and their infants in Lorestan province, Western Iran. Blood and sera samples were collected from 98 pregnant women and their infants. All collected samples were examined for Toxoplasma gondii infection by serological tests (ELISA IgM &amp; IgG) and PCR assay. Among the 98 samples of mother and umbilical cord prevalence of anti-Toxoplasma IgG, was 34/98 (34.69 %) and 33/98 (33.67 %), respectively. All pregnant women were negative for, anti-Toxoplasma IgM while it was found in 5/98 (5.1 %) of umbilical cords. Based on PCR analysis, Toxoplasma infection was detected in 5 (5.1 %) and 7 (7.14 %) of mother and umbilical cords, respectively. Molecular test along with evaluation of IgM (P &lt;0.001) and IgG (P = 0.001) were significantly correlated.	Calcium imaging is commonly used to measure the neural activity of large groups of neurons in mice. Genetically encoded calcium indicators (GECIs) can be delivered for this purpose using non-invasive genetic methods. Compared to viral gene transfer, transgenic targeting of GECIs provides stable long-term expression and obviates the need for invasive viral injections. Transgenic mice expressing the green GECI GCaMP6 are already widely used. Here we present the generation and characterization of transgenic mice expressing the sensitive red GECI jRGECO1a, driven by the Thy1 promoter. Four transgenic lines with different expression patterns showed sufficiently high expression for cellular in vivo imaging. We used two-photon microscopy to characterize visual responses of individual neurons in the visual cortex in vivo. The signal-to-noise ratio in transgenic mice was comparable to, or better than, mice transduced with adeno-associated virus. In addition, we show that Thy1-jRGECO1a transgenic mice are useful for transcranial population imaging and functional mapping using widefield fluorescence microscopy. We also demonstrate imaging of visual responses in retinal ganglion cells in vitro. Thy1-jRGECO1a transgenic mice are therefore a useful addition to the toolbox for imaging activity in intact neural networks.	One of the most important advances in biology has been the discovery that siRNA (small interfering RNA) is able to regulate the expression of genes, by a phenomenon known as RNAi (RNA interference). The discovery of RNAi, first in plants and Caenorhabditis elegans and later in mammalian cells, led to the emergence of a transformative view in biomedical research. siRNA has gained attention as a potential therapeutic reagent due to its ability to inhibit specific genes in many genetic diseases. siRNAs can be used as tools to study single gene function both in vivo and in-vitro and are an attractive new class of therapeutics, especially against undruggable targets for the treatment of cancer and other diseases. The siRNA delivery systems are categorized as non-viral and viral delivery systems. The non-viral delivery system includes polymers; Lipids; peptides etc. are the widely studied delivery systems for siRNA. Effective pharmacological use of siRNA requires 'carriers' that can deliver the siRNA to its intended site of action. The carriers assemble the siRNA into supramolecular complexes that display functional properties during the delivery process.	Genetically encoded calcium indicators (GECIs) allow measurement of activity in large populations of neurons and in small neuronal compartments, over times of milliseconds to months. Although GFP-based GECIs are widely used for in vivo neurophysiology, GECIs with red-shifted excitation and emission spectra have advantages for in vivo imaging because of reduced scattering and absorption in tissue, and a consequent reduction in phototoxicity. However, current red GECIs are inferior to the state-of-the-art GFP-based GCaMP6 indicators for detecting and quantifying neural activity. Here we present improved red GECIs based on mRuby (jRCaMP1a, b) and mApple (jRGECO1a), with sensitivity comparable to GCaMP6. We characterized the performance of the new red GECIs in cultured neurons and in mouse, Drosophila, zebrafish and C. elegans in vivo. Red GECIs facilitate deep-tissue imaging, dual-color imaging together with GFP-based reporters, and the use of optogenetics in combination with calcium imaging.	Genetically-encoded calcium indicators (GECIs) facilitate imaging activity of genetically defined neuronal populations in vivo. The high intracellular GECI concentrations required for in vivo imaging are usually achieved by viral gene transfer using adeno-associated viruses. Transgenic expression of GECIs promises important advantages, including homogeneous, repeatable, and stable expression without the need for invasive virus injections. Here we present the generation and characterization of transgenic mice expressing the GECIs GCaMP6s or GCaMP6f under the Thy1 promoter. We quantified GCaMP6 expression across brain regions and neurons and compared to other transgenic mice and AAV-mediated expression. We tested three mouse lines for imaging in the visual cortex in vivo and compared their performance to mice injected with AAV expressing GCaMP6. Furthermore, we show that GCaMP6 Thy1 transgenic mice are useful for long-term, high-sensitivity imaging in behaving mice. 	Planar neural networks and interfaces serve as versatile in vitro models of central nervous system physiology, but adaptations of related methods to three dimensions (3D) have met with limited success. Here, we demonstrate for the first time volumetric functional imaging in a bioengineered neural tissue growing in a transparent hydrogel with cortical cellular and synaptic densities, by introducing complementary new developments in nonlinear microscopy and neural tissue engineering. Our system uses a novel hybrid multiphoton microscope design combining a 3D scanning-line temporal-focusing subsystem and a conventional laser-scanning multiphoton microscope to provide functional and structural volumetric imaging capabilities: dense microscopic 3D sampling at tens of volumes per second of structures with mm-scale dimensions containing a network of over 1,000 developing cells with complex spontaneous activity patterns. These developments open new opportunities for large-scale neuronal interfacing and for applications of 3D engineered networks ranging from basic neuroscience to the screening of neuroactive substances. 	Line illumination geometries have advantageous properties for temporal focusing nonlinear microscopy. The characteristics of line temporal focusing (LITEF) in transparent and scattering media are studied here both experimentally and using numerical model simulations. We introduce an approximate analytical formula for the dependence of axial sectioning on the laser and microscope's parameters. Furthermore, we show that LITEF is more robust to tissue scattering than wide-field temporal focusing, and can penetrate much deeper into scattering tissue while maintaining good sectioning capabilities. Based on these observations, we propose a new design for LITEF-based tissue imaging at depths that could potentially exceed the out-of-focus physical excitation limit.	A simple technique for remote scanning of the focal plane in temporal focusing multiphoton microscopy is demonstrated both theoretically and experimentally. A new on-axis light propagation optical setup design enables this scanning, which was considered not feasible in previous studies. The focal plane is axially displaced by the movement of a remote optical device, consisting of a double prism grating, and optionally a cylindrical lens. The displacement is linear, and its slope is inversely proportional to the square of the optical system's magnification.	Temporal focusing is a simple approach for achieving tight, optically sectioned excitation in nonlinear microscopy and multiphoton photo-manipulation. Key applications and advantages of temporal focusing involve propagation through scattering media, but the progressive broadening of the temporal focus has not been characterized. By combining a detailed geometrical optics model with Monte-Carlo scattering simulations we introduce and validate a simulation strategy for predicting temporal focusing characteristics in scattering and non-scattering media. The broadening of the temporal focus width with increasing depth in brain tissue is studied using both simulations and experiments for several key optical geometries, and an analytical approximation is found for the dependence of this broadening on the microscope's parameters in a transparent medium. Our results indicate that a multiphoton temporal focus has radically different broadening characteristics in deep tissue than those of a spatial focus.	Marking functionally distinct neuronal ensembles with high spatiotemporal resolution is a key challenge in systems neuroscience. We recently introduced CaMPARI, an engineered fluorescent protein whose green-to-red photoconversion depends on simultaneous light exposure and elevated calcium, which enabled marking active neuronal populations with single-cell and subsecond resolution. However, CaMPARI (CaMPARI1) has several drawbacks, including background photoconversion in low calcium, slow kinetics and reduced fluorescence after chemical fixation. In this work, we develop CaMPARI2, an improved sensor with brighter green and red fluorescence, faster calcium unbinding kinetics and decreased photoconversion in low calcium conditions. We demonstrate the improved performance of CaMPARI2 in mammalian neurons and in vivo in larval zebrafish brain and mouse visual cortex. Additionally, we herein develop an immunohistochemical detection method for specific labeling of the photoconverted red form of CaMPARI. The anti-CaMPARI-red antibody provides strong labeling that is selective for photoconverted CaMPARI in activated neurons in rodent brain tissue.
Davalos, Dimitrios	Neurosciences	30405384	29765914	27579180	27007810	26705377	26579010	24740641	24698096	30737131	30323343	NA	A skeletal anterior open-bite is a challenging malocclusion for the orthodontist due to the difficulty and instability of correction. Treatment options for the adult patient include extractions, anterior extrusion with intermaxillary elastics, posterior intrusion using skeletal anchorage, occlusal adjustment, and orthognathic surgery. Patient compliance plays a key role in posttreatment stability. The present case report demonstrates the orthodontic treatment of an adult patient who presented with a complex open-bite malocclusion. Treatment involved the placement of four miniscrews to assist intrusion of maxillary molars by applying posterior vertical maxillary elastics and extrusion of the anterior segments using anterior vertical interarch elastics. Ideal intercuspation was successfully achieved and good stability was maintained during 3 years following treatment. The intrusion of the maxillary molars with miniscrews is an interesting option in selected cases of skeletal anterior open bite. The retention protocol should be specific in these cases.	Schizophrenia is a complex and often disabling disorder that is characterized by a wide range of social, emotional, and cognitive deficits. Increasing research suggests that the greatest social and cognitive therapeutic impact comes from early identification. The present study applied a well-established neurophysiological paradigm in the schizophrenia literature, mismatch negativity (MMN), to college students identified as high risk (HR) for psychosis to investigate MMN as a potential biomarker for the onset of psychosis. The hypothesis was that HR would exhibit attenuated MMN amplitudes compared to controls, as has been established in individuals with chronic schizophrenia. Participants (N = 121) were separated into Group 1 (controls) (n 1 = 72) and Group 2 (HR) (n 2 = 49) based on the established cutoff score of the 16-item Prodromal Questionnaire. Participants then completed a time based MMN paradigm during which brain activity was recorded with EEG. For all electrode locations, controls demonstrated significantly more negative amplitudes than HR (Cz: F(1,119) = 8.09, p = .005; Fz: F(1, 119) = 5.74, p = .018; Pz: F(1,119) = 5.88, p = .017). Results suggested that MMN may assist in identifying those who appear high-functioning but may be at risk for later development of psychosis or cognitive and psychological difficulties associated with psychosis. 	Executive dysfunction in college students who have had an acute traumatic brain injury (TBI) was investigated. The cognitive, behavioral, and metacognitive effects on college students who endorsed experiencing a brain injury were specifically explored. Participants were 121 college students who endorsed a mild TBI, and 121 college students with no history of a TBI were matched on sex and ethnicity to examine potential differences between groups. Participants completed the Dysexecutive Questionnaire (DEX). A Rasch analysis indicated that the TBI group had significantly higher total scores on the DEX than the control group. Moreover, when compared with the control group, the students with a TBI had higher scores on all 3 subcomponents of the DEX. These findings suggest that students who endorse brain injuries may experience more difficulty with specific facets of college. Thus, the importance of academic and personal resources available for students with a TBI is discussed.	Clinicians often have difficulty distinguishing between various forms of dementia to achieve a correct diagnosis. Little research has been done to examine whether awareness of one's cognitive deficits, or metacognitive monitoring, might differ between dementia diagnoses, thereby providing an additional means of differentiating between dementia subtypes. We review articles examining metacognitive comparisons between two of the most common dementia subtypes: Alzheimer's disease and frontotemporal dementia. Greater monitoring deficits were apparent in frontotemporal dementia than in Alzheimer's disease, and participants with frontotemporal dementia were less likely to utilize task experience to update and improve the accuracy of subsequent monitoring judgments. Results provide evidence for the utility of metacognitive measures as a means of distinguishing between Alzheimer's disease and frontotemporal dementia.	Time perception has been described as a fundamental skill needed to engage in a number of higher level cognitive processes essential to successfully navigate everyday life (e.g., planning, sequencing, etc.) Temporal processing is often thought of as a basic neural process that impacts a variety of other cognitive processes. Others, however, have argued that timing in the brain can be affected by a number of variables such as attention and motivation. In an effort to better understand timing in the brain at a basic level with minimal attentional demands, researchers have often employed use of the mismatch negativity (MMN). MMN, specifically duration MMN (dMMN) and interval MMN (iMMN) have been popular methods for studying temporal processing in populations for which attention or motivation may be an issue (e.g., clinical populations, early developmental studies). There are, however, select studies which suggest that attention may in fact modify both temporal processing in general and the MMN event-related potential. It is unclear the degree to which attention affects MMN or whether the effects differ depending on the complexity or difficulty of the MMN paradigm. The iMMN indexes temporal processing and is elicited by introducing a deviant interval duration amid a series of standards. A greater degree of difference in the deviant from the standard elicits a heightened iMMN. Unlike past studies, in which attention was intentionally directed toward a closed-captioned move, the current study had participants partake in tasks involving varying degrees of attention (passive, low, and high) with varying degrees of deviants (small, medium, and large) to better understand the role of attention on the iMMN and to assess whether level of attention paired with changes in task difficulty differentially influence the iMMN electrophysiological responses. Data from 19 subjects were recorded in an iMMN paradigm. The amplitude of the iMMN waveform showed an increase with attention, particularly for intervals that were the most distinct from a standard interval (p &lt; 0.02). Results suggest that the role of attention on the iMMN is complex. Both the degree of attention paid as well as the level of difficulty of the MMN task likely influence the neuronal response within a timing network. These results suggest that electrophysiological perception of time is modified by attention and that the design of the iMMN study is critical to minimize the possible confounding effects of attention. In addition, the implications of these results for future studies assessing interval duration-based MMN in clinical populations is also addressed. 	Although multiple sclerosis (MS) has been associated with the coagulation system, the temporal and spatial regulation of coagulation activity in neuroinflammatory lesions is unknown. Using a novel molecular probe, we characterized the activity pattern of thrombin, the central protease of the coagulation cascade, in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. Thrombin activity preceded onset of neurological signs, increased at disease peak, and correlated with fibrin deposition, microglial activation, demyelination, axonal damage, and clinical severity. Mice with a genetic deficit in prothrombin confirmed the specificity of the thrombin probe. Thrombin activity might be exploited for developing sensitive probes for preclinical detection and monitoring of neuroinflammation and MS progression.	The wide range of psychological and cognitive symptoms associated with schizophrenia can often affect the level of independence that individuals with schizophrenia can achieve in their lives. Prospective memory (PM), or memory associated with future intentions, has been proposed as a useful indicator of select independent living skills. Currently, there is limited research with regards to prospective memory in schizophrenia. The current review systematically summarizes the literature focusing on prospective memory in schizophrenia and concludes that individuals with schizophrenia exhibited both an impairment in PM when compared to healthy controls and a general lack of awareness regarding these deficits. The existing research also suggests that PM deficits are not related to chronicity of illness or medications associated with schizophrenia. Limited findings suggest that PM deficits in individuals with schizophrenia may be associated with the ability to live independently and instrumental activities of daily living. 	Cerebrovascular alterations are a key feature of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis. However, whether vascular damage contributes to synaptic dysfunction and how it synergizes with amyloid pathology to cause neuroinflammation and cognitive decline remain poorly understood. Here, we show that the blood protein fibrinogen induces spine elimination and promotes cognitive deficits mediated by CD11b-CD18 microglia activation. 3D molecular labeling in cleared mouse and human AD brains combined with repetitive in vivo two-photon imaging showed focal fibrinogen deposits associated with loss of dendritic spines independent of amyloid plaques. Fibrinogen-induced spine elimination was prevented by inhibiting reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation or genetic ablation of CD11b. Genetic elimination of the fibrinogen binding motif to CD11b reduced neuroinflammation, synaptic deficits, and cognitive decline in the 5XFAD mouse model of AD. Thus, fibrinogen-induced spine elimination and cognitive decline via CD11b link cerebrovascular damage with immune-mediated neurodegeneration and may have important implications in AD and related conditions.	Activation of innate immunity and deposition of blood-derived fibrin in the central nervous system (CNS) occur in autoimmune and neurodegenerative diseases, including multiple sclerosis (MS) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the mechanisms that link disruption of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) to neurodegeneration are poorly understood, and exploration of fibrin as a therapeutic target has been limited by its beneficial clotting functions. Here we report the generation of monoclonal antibody 5B8, targeted against the cryptic fibrin epitope γ377-395, to selectively inhibit fibrin-induced inflammation and oxidative stress without interfering with clotting. 5B8 suppressed fibrin-induced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase activation and the expression of proinflammatory genes. In animal models of MS and AD, 5B8 entered the CNS and bound to parenchymal fibrin, and its therapeutic administration reduced the activation of innate immunity and neurodegeneration. Thus, fibrin-targeting immunotherapy inhibited autoimmunity- and amyloid-driven neurotoxicity and might have clinical benefit without globally suppressing innate immunity or interfering with coagulation in diverse neurological diseases.
De la Motte, Carol	Inflammation and Immunity	31262781	29574062	29290146	28978412	28562487	27981209	27845198	27679489	27398974	26583132	Platelets are specialized cells essential for hemostasis that also function as crucial effectors capable of mediating inflammatory and immune responses. These sentinels continually survey their environment and discriminate between homeostatic and danger signals such as modified components of the extracellular matrix. The glycosaminoglycan hyaluronan (HA) is a major extracellular matrix component that coats the vascular lumen and, under normal conditions, restricts access of inflammatory cells. In response to tissue damage, the endothelial HA matrix enhances leukocyte recruitment and regulates the early stages of the inflammatory response. We have shown that platelets can degrade HA from the surface of activated endothelial cells via the enzyme hyaluronidase-2 (HYAL2) and that HYAL2 is deficient in platelets isolated from patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Platelets are known to be involved in the pathogenesis of several chronic disease states, including IBD, but they have been largely overlooked in the context of intestinal inflammation. We therefore wanted to define the mechanism by which platelet HYAL2 regulates the inflammatory response during colitis. In this study, we provide evidence that HA catabolism is disrupted in human intestinal microvascular endothelial cells isolated from patients with IBD. Furthermore, mice deficient in HYAL2 are more susceptible to an acute model of colitis, and this increased susceptibility is abrogated by transfusion of HYAL2-competent platelets. Finally, we show that platelets, via HYAL2-dependent degradation of endothelial HA, regulate the early stages of inflammation in colitis by limiting leukocyte extravasation.	Hyaluronan, a major extracellular matrix component, is an active participant in many disease states, including inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). The synthesis of this dynamic polymer is increased at sites of inflammation. Hyaluronan together with the enzymes responsible for its synthesis, degradation, and its binding proteins, directly modulates the promotion and resolution of disease by controlling recruitment of immune cells, by release of inflammatory cytokines, and by balancing hemostasis. This review discusses the functional significance of hyaluronan in the cells and tissues involved in inflammatory bowel disease pathobiology.	Intestinal epithelium plays a critical role in host defense against orally acquired pathogens. Dysregulation of this protective barrier is a primary driver of inflammatory bowel diseases (Crohn's and ulcerative colitis) and also infant gastrointestinal infections. Previously, our lab reported that hyaluronan (HA) isolated from human milk induces the expression of the antimicrobial peptide β-defensin in vivo and protects against Salmonella Typhimurium infection of epithelial cells in vitro. In addition, we demonstrated that commercially available 35 kDa size HA induces the expression of β-defensin, upregulates the expression of tight junction protein zonula occludens-1 (ZO-1), and attenuates murine Citrobacter rodentium infection in vivo. In this current study, we report that HA35 remains largely intact and biologically active during transit through the digestive tract where it directly induces β-defensin expression upon epithelial cell contact. We also demonstrate HA35 abrogation of murine Salmonella Typhimurium infection as well as downregulation of leaky tight junction protein claudin-2 expression. Taken together, we propose a dual role for HA in host innate immune defense at the epithelial cell surface, acting to induce antimicrobial peptide production and also block pathogen-induced leaky gut. HA35 is therefore a promising therapeutic in the defense against bacterially induced colitis in compromised adults and vulnerable newborns.	Tight junction proteins are critical in maintaining homeostatic intestinal permeability. Multiple intestinal inflammatory diseases are correlated with reduced expression of tight junction proteins. We have recently reported that oral treatment of mice with Hyaluronan 35kDa (HA35) increases colonic expression of tight junction protein zonula occludens-1 (ZO-1). Here, we investigate whether HA35 treatment enhances ZO-1 expression by direct interaction with intestinal epithelium in vitro and have identified the HA receptor responsible for HA35-mediated ZO-1 induction in colonic epithelium in vitro and in vivo. Our results reveal that HA35 treatment increases ZO-1 expression in mouse intestinal epithelial organoids, while large HA 2000kDa is not internalized into the cells. Our immunofluorescence data indicate that layilin, but neither toll-like receptor-4 (TLR-4) nor CD44, mediate the HA35-induced ZO-1 expression in colonic epithelium in vitro and in vivo. Additionally, using layilin null mice we have determined that layilin mediates HA35 induction of ZO-1 in healthy mice and during dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis. Furthermore, we find that while ZO-1 expression levels are reduced, layilin expression levels are equivalent in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) patients and non-IBD controls. Together, our data suggest that layilin is an important HA receptor, that mediates the effect of oral HA35 treatment on intestinal epithelium. HA35 holds promise as a simple dietary supplement to strengthen gut barrier defense.	The extracellular matrix (ECM) is a frequently overlooked component of the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). However, the functional and clinically significant interactions between immune as well as nonimmune cells with the ECM have important implications for disease pathogenesis. In this review, we discuss how the ECM participates in process associated with IBD that involves diverse cell types of the intestine. Remodeling of the ECM is a consistent feature of IBD, and studies have implicated key ECM molecules in IBD pathogenesis. While the majority of prior studies have focused on ECM degradation by proteases, more recent studies have uncovered additional degrading enzymes, identified fragments of ECM components as potential biomarkers, and revealed that ECM synthesis is increased in IBD. These new studies support the notion that the ECM, rather than acting as a passive element, is an active participant in promoting inflammation. New studies have offered exciting clues about the function of the ECM during IBD pathogenesis. The balance of ECM synthesis and turnover is altered in IBD, and the molecules involved exhibit discreet biological functions that regulate inflammation on the basis of specific cell type and matrix molecule.	Crohn's Disease (CD) is a chronic inflammatory disease of the gastrointestinal tract. Fibrosis, a serious complication of CD, occurs when activated intestinal fibroblasts deposit excessive amounts of extracellular matrix (ECM) in affected areas. A major component of the ECM is high-molecular-weight hyaluronan (HA) that, when depolymerized to low-molecular-weight fragments, becomes proinflammatory and profibrotic. Mechanisms for HA degradation are incompletely understood, but the novel protein KIAA1199 recently was discovered to degrade HA. We hypothesized that KIAA1199 protein is increased in CD colon fibroblasts and generates HA fragments that foster inflammation and fibrosis. Fibroblasts were isolated from explants of surgically resected colon tissue from CD and non-inflammatory bowel disease control (ND) patients. Protein levels and tissue distribution of KIAA1199 were assessed by immunoblot and immunostaining, and functional HA degradation was measured biochemically. Increased levels of KIAA1199 protein were produced and deposited in the ECM by cultured CD fibroblasts compared with controls. Treatment of fibroblasts with the proinflammatory cytokine interleukin (IL) 6 increased deposition of KIAA1199 in the ECM. CD fibroblasts also produce significantly higher levels of IL6 compared with controls, and antibody blockade of IL6 receptors in CD colon fibroblasts decreased the level of KIAA1199 protein in the ECM. Colon fibroblasts degrade HA, however, small interfering RNA silencing of KIAA1199 abrogated that ability. CD fibroblasts produce increased levels of KIAA1199 primarily through an IL6-driven autocrine mechanism. This leads to excessive degradation of HA and the generation of proinflammatory HA fragments, which contributes to maintenance of gut inflammation and fibrosis.	Maintaining a healthy intestinal barrier, the primary physical barrier between intestinal microbiota and the underlying lamina propria, is critical for optimal health. Epithelial integrity is essential for the prevention of the entrance of luminal contents, such as bacteria and their products, through the large intestinal barrier. In this study, we investigated the protective functions of biosynthetic, specific sized, hyaluronan around 35kDa (HA35) on intestinal epithelium in healthy mice, as well as mice infected Citrobacter rodentium, an established model that mimics infection with a serious human pathogen, enteropathogenic E. coli (EPEC). Our results reveal that treatment with HA35 protects mice from Citrobacter infection and enhances the epithelial barrier function. In particular, we have found that HA35 induces the expression of tight junction protein zonula occludens (ZO)-1 in both healthy and Citrobacter infected mice, as demonstrated by immunoflurorescence and Western blot analyses. Furthermore, we determined that HA35 treatment enhances ZO-1 expression and reduces intestinal permeability at the early stages of dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis in mice. Together, our data demonstrate that the expression and functionality of tight junctions, are increased by HA35 treatment, suggesting a novel mechanism for the protection from Citrobacter infection.	Dynamic alterations of the extracellular matrix in response to injury directly modulate inflammation and consequently the promotion and resolution of disease. During inflammation, hyaluronan (HA) is increased at sites of inflammation where it may be covalently modified with the heavy chains (HC) of inter-α-trypsin inhibitor. Deposition of this unique, pathological form of HA (HC-HA) leads to the formation of cable-like structures that promote adhesion of leukocytes. Naive mononuclear leukocytes bind specifically to inflammation-associated HA matrices but do not adhere to HA constitutively expressed under homeostatic conditions. In this study, we have directly investigated a role for the blood-coagulation protease thrombin in regulating the adhesion of monocytic cells to smooth muscle cells producing an inflammatory matrix. Our data demonstrate that the proteolytic activity of thrombin negatively regulates the adhesion of monocytes to an inflammatory HC-HA complex. This effect is independent of protease-activated receptor activation but requires proteolytic activity toward a novel substrate. Components of HC-HA complexes were predicted to contain conserved thrombin-susceptible cleavage sites based on sequence analysis, and heavy chain 1 (HC1) was confirmed to be a substrate of thrombin. Thrombin treatment is sufficient to cleave HC1 associated with either cell-surface HA or serum inter-α-trypsin inhibitor. Furthermore, thrombin treatment of the inflammatory matrix leads to dissolution of HC-HA cable structures and abolishes leukocyte adhesion. These data establish a novel mechanism whereby thrombin cleavage of HC1 regulates the adhesive properties of an inflammatory HA matrix.	Hyaluronan is the predominant glycosaminoglycan component of the extracellular matrix with an emerging role in hematopoiesis. Modulation of hyaluronan polymer size is responsible for its control over cellular functions, and the balance of hyaluronan synthesis and degradation determines its molecular size. Although two active somatic hyaluronidases are expressed in mammals, only deficiency in hyaluronidase-2 (Hyal-2) results in thrombocytopenia of unknown mechanism. Our results reveal that Hyal-2 knockout mice accumulate hyaluronan within their bone marrow and within megakaryocytes, the cells responsible for platelet generation. Proplatelet formation by Hyal-2 knockout megakaryocytes was disrupted because of abnormal formation of the demarcation membrane system, which was dilated and poorly developed. Importantly, peptide-mediated delivery of exogenous hyaluronidase rescued deficient proplatelet formation in murine and human megakaryocytes lacking Hyal-2. Together, our data uncover a previously unsuspected mechanism of how hyaluronan and Hyal-2 control platelet generation.	Fibrosis is a debilitating condition that can lead to impairment of the affected organ's function. Excessive deposition of extracellular matrix (ECM) molecules is characteristic of most fibrotic tissues. Fibroblasts activated by cytokines or growth factors differentiate into myofibroblasts that drive fibrosis by depositing ECM molecules, such as collagen, fibronectin, and connective tissue growth factor. Transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) is one of the major profibrotic cytokines which promotes fibrosis by signaling abnormal ECM regulation. Hyaluronan (HA) is a major ECM glycosaminoglycan that is regulated by TGF-β and whose role in fibrosis is emerging. Aside from its role as a hydrating, space filling polymer, HA regulates different cellular functions and is known to have a role in wound healing and inflammation. Importantly, HA deposition is increased in multiple fibrotic diseases. In this review we highlight studies that link HA to fibrosis and discuss what is known about the role of HA, its receptors, and its anabolic and catabolic enzymes in different fibrotic diseases. 
Derwin, Kathleen	Biomedical Engineering	31056396	30860665	30318274	30106830	29398399	28602151	28457317	28426701	26808837	25460414	This study tested validity and efficiency of Orthopaedic Minimal Data Set (OrthoMiDaS) Episode of Care (OME). We analyzed 100 isolated rotator cuff repair cases in the OME database. Surgeons completed a traditional operative note and OME report. A blinded reviewer extracted data from operative notes and implant logs in electronic medical records by manual chart review. OME and electronic medical record data were compared with data counts and agreement between 40 variables of rotator cuff disease and repair procedures. Data counts were assessed using raw percentages and McNemar test (with continuity correction). Agreement of categorical variables was analyzed using Cohen κ (unweighted) and of numerical variables using the concordance correlation coefficient (CCC). Efficiency was assessed by median time to complete. OME database had significantly higher data counts for 25% (10/40) of variables. A high level of proportional and statistical agreement was demonstrated between the data. Among 35 categorical variables, proportional agreement was perfect for 17%, almost perfect (0.81 ≤ κ ≤ 1.00) for 37%, substantial (0.61 ≤ κ ≤ 0.80) for 20%, moderate (0.41 ≤ κ ≤ 0.60) for 14%, fair (0.21 ≤ κ ≤ 0.40) for 6%, and slight (0.0 ≤ κ ≤ 0.20) for 6%. Of 5 numerical variables, agreement was almost perfect (CCC &gt; 0.99) for 20% and poor (CCC &lt; 0.90) for 80%. Median OME completion time was 161.5 seconds (interquartile range, 116-224.5). OME is an efficient, valid tool for collecting comprehensive, standardized data on rotator cuff repair.	Biologic grafts used in hernia repair undergo rapid cellular infiltration and remodeling, but their premature degradation often results in hernia recurrence. We hypothesize that a temporary barrier that prevents infiltration of acute inflammatory cells into the graft during the initial 4 weeks of implantation could mitigate graft degradation. The purpose of this study is to design tyramine-substituted hyaluronan (THA) hydrogel coatings with tunable degradation properties, as a means to develop a resorbable barrier for human acellular dermis grafts (HADM). THA plugs prepared at different cross-linking densities, by varying cross-linking agent concentration (0.0001-0.0075% H2 O2 ), demonstrated varying rates of in vitro degradation (25 U/mL hyaluronidase, 48 h). Based on these results, HADM grafts were coated with THA at three cross-linking densities (0.0001%, 0.00075%, and 0.003% H2 O2 ) and THA coating degradation was evaluated in vitro (25 U/mL hyaluronidase, 48 h) and in vivo (rat intraperitoneal implantation, 1-4 weeks). THA coatings degraded in vitro and in vivo with the lowest cross-linking density (0.0001% H2 O2 ), generally showing greater degradation as evidenced by significant decrease in coating cross-sectional area. However, all three coatings remained partially degraded after 4 weeks of in vivo implantation. Alternate strategies to accelerate in vivo degradation of THA coatings are required to allow investigation of the study hypothesis. © 2019 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Biomed Mater Res Part B: Appl Biomater 107B:2664-2672, 2019.	The factors that associate with surgical decisions about repair technique and the number of suture anchors used in rotator cuff repair have not been previously investigated. This study investigated the extent to which patient, surgeon, and surgical factors associate with performing single-row vs. double-row repair technique and ultimately with the number of suture anchors used. Our institution's prospective surgical cohort was queried for patients undergoing suture anchor repair of superior-posterior rotator cuff tendon tears between February 2015 and August 2017. Exclusion criteria were patients with isolated subscapularis tears, tears that were not repaired, repairs without suture anchors, repairs involving graft augmentation, and repairs by surgeons with fewer than 10 cases. Multivariable statistical modeling was used to investigate associations between patient and surgical factors and the choice of repair technique and number of suture anchors used. A total of 925 cases performed by 13 surgeons met inclusion criteria. Tear type (full thickness), tear size (medium, large, and massive), a greater number of torn tendons, repair type (arthroscopic), and surgeon were significantly associated with performing a double-row over a single-row repair. Tear size, a greater number of torn tendons, double-row repair technique, and surgeon were significantly associated with a greater number of anchors used for repair. Our findings suggest that in the absence of data to conclusively support a clinical benefit of one repair technique over another, surgeons' training, experience, and inherent practice patterns become the primary factors that define their surgical methods.	On May 22, 2017, the National Institutes of Health (NIH)/National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases (NIAMS) hosted a roundtable on &quot;Innovative Treatments for Enthesis Repair.&quot; A summary of the roundtable discussion, as well as a list of the extramural participants, can be found at https://www.niams.nih.gov/about/meetings-events/roundtables/roundtable-innovative-treatments-enthesis-repair. This paper reviews the challenges and opportunities for developing effective treatment strategies for enthesis repair that were identified at the roundtable discussion.	A reinforced biologic strip graft was designed to mechanically augment the repair of rotator cuff tears that are fully reparable by arthroscopic techniques yet have a likelihood of failure. This study assessed the extent to which augmentation of human supraspinatus repairs with a reinforced fascia strip can reduce gap formation during in vitro cyclic loading. The supraspinatus tendon was sharply released from the proximal humerus and repaired back to its insertion with anchors in 9 matched pairs of human cadaveric shoulders. One repair from each pair was also augmented with a reinforced fascia strip. All repairs were subjected to cyclic mechanical loading of 5 to 180 N for 1000 cycles. All augmented and nonaugmented repair constructs completed 1000 cycles of loading. Augmentation with a reinforced fascia strip graft significantly decreased the amount of gap formation compared with nonaugmented repairs. The average gap formation of augmented repairs was 1.5 ± 0.7 mm after the first cycle vs. 3.0 ± 1.2 mm for nonaugmented repairs (P = .003) and 5.0 ± 1.5 mm after 1000 cycles of loading, which averaged 24% ± 21% less than the gap formation of nonaugmented repairs (7.0 ± 2.8 mm, P = .014). Cadaveric human supraspinatus repairs augmented with a reinforced fascia strip have significantly less initial stroke elongation and gap formation than repairs without augmentation. Augmentation limited gap formation to the greatest extent early in the testing protocol. Human studies are necessary to confirm the appropriate indications and effectiveness of augmentation scaffolds for rotator cuff repair healing in the clinical setting.	Preclinical evaluation of hernia meshes is commonly performed in porcine models. We recently developed two surgically induced porcine hernia models-an incisional and an excisional model-that formed persistent hernias in the absence of graft repair. Herein, we investigate if these models will continue to form a hernia after graft repair. Ten pigs were used to create two hernia models-a 10-cm partial-thickness incisional defect (n = 5) and an 8 × 8-cm full-thickness excisional defect (n = 5). The defects were repaired using a 12 × 12-cm human acellular dermis graft placed in a preperitoneal/retrorectus sublay position and fixed using transfascial sutures. Postoperative management included the use of suction drainage for 1 week and an abdominal binder for 4 weeks in the more severe excisional model. Hernia development was assessed clinically, and hernia defect size and volume were measured using postoperative computed tomography (CT) imaging over 12 weeks. Radiographic inflation testing (2 L inflation), biaxial mechanical testing, and histological evaluation were also performed at 12 weeks. All pigs with the excisional model, but none with the incisional model, developed a clinically relevant hernia. At the end of 12 weeks, the excisional model had a significantly greater hernia defect size (259 ± 51 cm<sup>2</sup> vs. 47 ± 16 cm<sup>2</sup>) and repair volume (865 ± 414 cm<sup>3</sup> vs. 85 ± 52 cm<sup>3</sup>) compared with the incisional model. The excisional model also showed an order of magnitude greater increase in repair volume (280 cm<sup>3</sup> vs. 47 cm<sup>3</sup>) compared with the incisional model upon 2 L inflation. Furthermore, the excisional model showed a trend of having higher dilatational strain at average biaxial load of 250 N and lower stiffness compared with the incisional model. The excisional model had a thin, hypercellular hernia sac spanning the defect, whereas the incisional model had a thick densely fibrotic scar bridging the defect. The 8 × 8-cm excisional defect model, together with appropriate postoperative wound management, in the pig model is recommended for preclinical investigation of different grafts for hernia repair. Novel CT imaging and biomechanical testing methods are recommended to measure functional outcomes of hernia repair in preclinical models.	The pig is commonly used as a preclinical model for ventral hernia repair. However, no study has verified that an unrepaired surgically induced hernia (control) in the pig does not heal spontaneously but rather develops a persistent hernia. Without such verification in any given model, one cannot draw conclusions on the efficacy of the repair technique investigated. Three surgically induced hernia models with increasing severity were created in eight pigs. These included 10-cm retrorectus partial-thickness (model 1) and 15-cm preperitoneal full-thickness (model 2) incisional defects and an 8 × 8 cm preperitoneal full-thickness excisional defect (model 3). Postoperative management included use of an abdominal binder, and in some cases, suction drainage, for 2 wk to support the repair and prevent seroma. Models were evaluated for persistence of hernia at 5 wk using clinical and radiographic assessments. All pigs developed clinical hernias after 2 wk of defect creation, but only models 1 and 3 had clinically persistent hernias at 5 wk. At 5 wk, the average defect area was 97 cm<sup>2</sup> in model 1, 66 cm<sup>2</sup> in model 2, and 245 cm<sup>2</sup> in model 3. Dense fibrotic scarring was observed in the models with resolved hernias. Our results highlight the need to verify an unrepaired hernia injury model does not heal spontaneously prior to using it for hernia repair studies. The partial-thickness incisional model 1 and full-thickness excisional model 3 formed persistent hernias in pigs at 5 wk and should be further explored as models for investigating hernia repair strategies.	Wounds causing extensive injury loss of muscle, also known as volumetric muscle loss (VML), are frequently associated with high-energy civilian trauma and combat-related extremity injuries. Currently, no effective clinical therapy is available for promoting de novo muscle tissue regeneration to restore muscle function following VML. Recent studies have shown evidence that osteoactivin (OA), a transmembrane glycoprotein, has the ability to prevent skeletal muscle atrophy in response to denervation. Therefore the objective of this study is to investigate the potential regenerative effect of OA embedded and delivered via a cross-linked gelatin hydrogel within a volumetric tibialis anterior muscle defect in a rat model. After 4 weeks, however, no evidence for muscle formation was found in defects treated with either low (5 μg/ml) or high (50 μg/ml) OA. It is possible that a different delivery scaffold, delivery kinetics, or OA concentration may have yielded an alternate outcome, or it is also possible that the spaciostructural environment of VML, or the local (versus systemic) delivery of OA, simply does not support any potential regenerative activity of OA in VML. Together with prior work, this study demonstrates that an efficacious and scalable therapy for regenerating muscle volume and function in VML remains a veritable clinical challenge worthy of continued future research efforts.	The natural history of rotator cuff tears can be unfavorable as patients develop fatty infiltration and muscle atrophy that is often associated with a loss of muscle strength and shoulder function. To facilitate study of possible biologic mechanisms involved in early degenerative changes to rotator cuff muscle and tendon tissues, the objective of this study was to develop a joint capsule injury model in the canine shoulder using arthroscopy. Arthroscopic surgical methods for performing a posterior joint capsulectomy in the canine shoulder were first defined in cadavers. Subsequently, one canine subject underwent bilateral shoulder joint capsulectomy using arthroscopy, arthroscopic surveillance at 2, 4 and 8 weeks, and gross and histologic examination of the joint at 10 weeks. The canine subject was weight-bearing within eight hours after index and follow-up surgeries and had no significant soft tissue swelling of the shoulder girdle or gross lameness. Chronic synovitis and macroscopic and microscopic evidence of pathologic changes to the rotator cuff bony insertions, tendons, myotendinous junctions and muscles were observed. This study demonstrates feasibility and proof-of-concept for a joint capsule injury model in the canine shoulder. Future work is needed to define the observed pathologic changes and their role in the progression of rotator cuff disease. Ultimately, better understanding of the biologic mechanisms of early progression of rotator cuff disease may lead to clinical interventions to halt or slow this process and avoid the more advanced and often irreversible conditions of large tendon tears with muscle fatty atrophy.	To understand the mechanical behavior of grafts in the context of hernia repair, there is a need to develop and adopt methods for mechanical testing of grafts in a clinically-relevant manner with clinically-relevant outcomes. Ball-burst and planar-biaxial methods were used to test three commercially-available hernia grafts (DermaMatrix, Biodesign, VitaMesh Blue). Both load-to-failure and cyclic fatigue tests were performed (n=6-11/group/test). Grafts were tested as sutured constructs in patch geometry. Dilatational strain analysis was performed considering the construct (both test methods) or the graft (planar-biaxial only) as the area of interest. DermaMatrix, Biodesign, and VitaMesh grafts showed differences in mechanical properties at the point of construct failure (load, in-plane load-per-suture and membrane tension) in ball-burst tests and differences in sub-failure properties (stiffness, dilatational strain at 16N/cm and cyclic mechanical properties) in planar-biaxial tests. In both load-to-failure and cyclic fatigue tests, each graft construct tended to be stiffer in planar-biaxial than ball-burst testing. In biaxial testing, the strain analysis method influenced the mechanical properties with the construct being more compliant than the graft. This study demonstrates that graft-fixation method, test mode and analysis method are important considerations for mechanical characterization of hernia grafts. Ball-burst tests can only estimate construct or material properties, whereas planar-biaxial tests capture anisotropy and can estimate construct, graft and material properties of the same test specimen. When the clinical performance of a graft in the context of hernia repair is of interest, testing a sutured construct and performing construct strain analysis arguably provides the most clinically-relevant assessment method.
DeSilva, Tara	Neurosciences	27685467	27600185	27397070	26071560	23068783	22522966	22327369	21968714	19535601	18314905	A major hallmark of the autoimmune demyelinating disease multiple sclerosis (MS) is immune cell infiltration into the brain and spinal cord resulting in myelin destruction, which not only slows conduction of nerve impulses, but causes axonal injury resulting in motor and cognitive decline. Current treatments for MS focus on attenuating immune cell infiltration into the central nervous system (CNS). These treatments decrease the number of relapses, improving quality of life, but do not completely eliminate relapses so long-term disability is not improved. Therefore, therapeutic agents that protect the CNS are warranted. In both animal models as well as human patients with MS, T cell entry into the CNS is generally considered the initiating inflammatory event. In order to assess if a drug protects the CNS, any potential effects on immune cell infiltration or proliferation in the periphery must be ruled out. This protocol describes how to determine whether CNS protection observed after drug intervention is a consequence of attenuating CNS-infiltrating immune cells or blocking death of CNS cells during inflammatory insults. The ability to examine MS treatments that are protective to the CNS during inflammatory insults is highly critical for the advancement of therapeutic strategies since current treatments reduce, but do not completely eliminate, relapses (i.e., immune cell infiltration), leaving the CNS vulnerable to degeneration.	The incidence of cognitive impairment in cardiovascular disease (CVD) patients has increased, adversely impacting quality of life and imposing a significant economic burden. Brain imaging of CVD patients has detected changes in the hippocampus, a brain region critical for normal learning and memory. However, it is not clear whether adverse cardiac events or other associated co-morbidities impair cognition. Here, using a murine model of acute myocardial ischemia/reperfusion (I/R), where the coronary artery was occluded for 30min followed by reperfusion, we tested the hypothesis that acute myocardial infarction triggers impairment in cognitive function. Two months following cardiac I/R, behavioral assessments specific for hippocampal cognitive function were performed. Mice subjected to cardiac I/R performed worse in the fear-conditioning paradigm as well as the object location memory behavioral test compared to sham-operated mice. Reactive gliosis was apparent in the hippocampal subregions CA1, CA3, and dentate gyrus 72h post-cardiac I/R as compared with sham, which was sustained two months post-cardiac I/R. Consistent with the inflammatory response, the abundance of doublecortin positive newborn neurons was decreased in the dentate gyrus 72h and 2months post-cardiac I/R as compared with sham. Therefore, we conclude that following acute myocardial infarction, rapid inflammatory responses negatively affect neurogenesis, which may underlie long-term changes in learning and memory.	Although multiple sclerosis is predominantly regarded as a disease of young adulthood, up to 5% of MS patients are diagnosed prior to age eighteen. The predominant form of MS is relapsing-remitting characterized by exacerbations of symptoms followed by periods of remission. The majority of disease modifying drugs target T cell proliferation or block migration into the central nervous system. Although these treatments reduce relapses, disease progression still occurs, warranting therapeutic strategies that protect the CNS. Biomarkers to indicate relapses would facilitate a personalized approach for add-on therapies that protect the CNS. A multiplex cytokine bead array was performed to detect T cell associated cytokines in sera from patients 6-20years of age with pediatric onset MS clinically diagnosed in relapse or remission compared to healthy control patients. Of the 25 cytokines evaluated, 17 were increased in patients clinically diagnosed in relapse compared to sera from control patients in contrast to only 9 cytokines in the clinically diagnosed remission group. Furthermore, a linear regression analysis of cytokine levels in the remission population showed 12 cytokines to be statistically elevated as a function of disease duration, with no effect observed in the relapse population. To further explore this concept, we used a multivariable stepwise discriminate analysis and found that the following four cytokines (IL-10, IL-21, IL-23, and IL-27) are not only a significant predictor for MS, but have important predictive value in determining a relapse. Since IL-10 and IL-27 are considered anti-inflammatory and IL-21 and IL-23 are pro-inflammatory, ratios of these cytokines were evaluated using a Duncan's multiple range test. Of the six possible combinations, increased ratios of IL-10:IL-21, IL-10:IL-23, and IL-10:IL-27 were significant suggesting levels of IL-10 to be a driving force in predicting a relapse.	T cell infiltration into the CNS is a significant underlying pathogenesis in autoimmune inflammatory demyelinating diseases. Several lines of evidence suggest that glutamate dysregulation in the CNS is an important consequence of immune cell infiltration in neuroinflammatory demyelinating diseases; yet, the causal link between inflammation and glutamate dysregulation is not well understood. A major source of glutamate release during oxidative stress is the system Xc(-) transporter; however, this mechanism has not been tested in animal models of autoimmune inflammatory demyelination. We find that pharmacological and genetic inhibition of system Xc(-) attenuates chronic and relapsing-remitting experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Remarkably, pharmacological blockade of system Xc(-) 7 d after induction of EAE attenuated T cell infiltration into the CNS, but not T cell activation in the periphery. Mice harboring a Slc7a11 (xCT) mutation that inactivated system Xc(-) were resistant to EAE, corroborating a central role for system Xc(-) in mediating immune cell infiltration. We next examined the role of the system Xc(-) transporter in the CNS after immune cell infiltration. Pharmacological inhibitors of the system Xc(-) transporter administered during the first relapse in a SJL animal model of relapsing-remitting EAE abrogated clinical disease, inflammation, and myelin loss. Primary coculture studies demonstrate that myelin-specific CD4(+) Th1 cells provoke microglia to release glutamate via the system Xc(-) transporter, causing excitotoxic death to mature myelin-producing oligodendrocytes. Taken together, these studies support a novel role for the system Xc(-) transporter in mediating T cell infiltration into the CNS as well as promoting myelin destruction after immune cell infiltration in EAE.	The use of patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) has been reported to provide effective pain relief, often resulting in less opioid consumption, and is associated with greater patient satisfaction when it is compared to other techniques of analgesia delivery. This study was done to compare the effectiveness of pain relief and patient satisfaction between PCA and the conventional method of administering boluses of analgesia for acute pain of traumatic origin in the Emergency Department (ED). Study patients were randomized into two groups after being given a bolus of morphine. The PCA group was then given morphine via the PCA system, whereas the control group was given the conventional boluses of morphine via titration method. Pain levels were measured using the visual analogue scale at intervals of 0, 15, 30, 45, 60, 90, and 120 min. Any adverse events were also noted. Finally, within 24 h, these patients completed questionnaires regarding their experience with regard to the pain relief they experienced. The PCA group experienced faster and greater pain relief. No life-threatening events were encountered. The satisfaction questionnaire revealed that the PCA group was more satisfied using the PCA method of pain relief than those receiving standard boluses for delivery of analgesia. PCA provides more effective pain relief and more patient satisfaction when compared to the conventional method of titrated bolus intravenous injection for the relief of traumatic pain in the ED setting.	The major regulators of synaptic glutamate in the cerebral cortex are the excitatory amino acid transporters 1-3 (EAAT1-3). In this study, we determined the cellular and temporal expression of EAAT1-3 in the developing human cerebral cortex. We applied single- and double-label immunocytochemistry to normative frontal or parietal (associative) cortex samples from 14 cases ranging in age from 23 gestational weeks to 2.5 postnatal years. The most striking finding was the transient expression of EAAT2 in layer V pyramidal neuronal cell bodies up until 8 postnatal months prior to its expression in protoplasmic astrocytes at 41 postconceptional weeks onward. EAAT2 was also expressed in neurons in layer I (presumed Cajal-Retzius cells), and white matter (interstitial) neurons. This expression in neurons in the developing human cortex contrasts with findings by others of transient expression exclusively in axon tracts in the developing sheep and rodent brain. With western blotting, we found that EAAT2 was expressed as a single band until 2 postnatal months, after which it was expressed as two bands. The expression of EAAT2 in pyramidal neurons during human brain development may contribute to cortical vulnerability to excitotoxicity during the critical period for perinatal hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy. In addition, by studying the expression of EAAT1 and EAAT2 glutamate transporters, it was possible to document the development of protoplasmic astrocytes.	To evaluate the controversial aspects of diabetes diagnosis. Within the past 2 years, revised guidelines for the diagnosis of diabetes have been issued which endorse the use of the hemoglobin A1C as a diagnostic test, in addition to the previously recommended tests. Updated diagnostic criteria for gestational diabetes were also published in the same period. Recent publications on the current role of oral glucose tolerance tests and diagnosis of diabetes in the acutely ill are sparse. There are new recommendations regarding the use of genetic testing and antibody testing in establishing the cause of diabetes. The inclusion of A1C as a diagnostic test has many advantages including reproducibility of the test and convenience, but there are situations where the test is unreliable and it misses many individuals who would have been diagnosed by plasma glucose testing. The diagnostic threshold of 6.5% for the A1C remains controversial. There is still no consensus on the best approach to diagnose gestational diabetes. The role of the oral glucose tolerance test seems to be diminishing. Diagnosis of diabetes in acute illness is aided by A1C testing. Genetic and autoantibody testing in specific situations offer diagnostic and therapeutic utility.	Pain seems to be one of the most frequent complaints in the emergency department, however pain control is often suboptimal as seen by many audits. We conducted a study to find out whether the use of patient control analgesia (PCA) is effective in controlling acute pain in the emergency department This was a randomized controlled trial conducted in the emergency departments of two tertiary centres over a period of 1 year. Patients were randomized into two groups. The study and the control groups were given analgesia through the PCA system and boluses of analgesia through titration method, respectively. Pain levels were measured using the Visual Analogue Scale at 15 min intervals. Any adverse events and total morphine dose for each group were recorded. Finally, within 24 h, these patients were given questionnaires regarding their experience with regards to pain relief encountered. A total of 47 patients were enrolled. The Visual Analogue Score change over 120 min for PCA and Morphine bolus groups were 5.921 [SD±1.656] and 4.834 (SD±1.797), respectively (P&lt;0.001). However the total dosage of morphine consumed by both groups were statistically insignificant; PCA 7.95 mg (SD±2.44) versus bolus 8.10 (SD±0.99) (P=0.06). The satisfaction questionnaire also revealed that the PCA group of patients was more satisfied using this method of pain relief. PCA provides more effective pain relief and patient satisfaction when compared with the conventional method of bolus intravenous injection for the relief of traumatic pain in the emergency department setting.	Glutamate released from synaptic vesicles mediates excitatory neurotransmission by stimulating glutamate receptors. Glutamate transporters maintain low synaptic glutamate levels critical for this process, a role primarily attributed to astrocytes. Recently, vesicular release of glutamate from unmyelinated axons in the rat corpus callosum has been shown to elicit AMPA receptor-mediated currents in glial progenitor cells. Glutamate transporters are the only mechanism of glutamate clearance, yet very little is known about the role of glutamate transporters in normal development of oligodendrocytes (OLs) or in excitotoxic injury to OLs. We found that OLs in culture are capable of sodium-dependent glutamate uptake with a K(m) of 10 +/- 2 microm and a V(max) of 2.6, 5.0, and 3.8 nmol x min(-1) x mg(-1) for preoligodendrocytes, immature, and mature OLs, respectively. Surprisingly, EAAC1, thought to be exclusively a neuronal transporter, contributes more to [(3)H]l-glutamate uptake in OLs than GLT1 or GLAST. These data suggest that glutamate transporters on oligodendrocytes may serve a critical role in maintaining glutamate homeostasis at a time when unmyelinated callosal axons are engaging in glutamatergic signaling with glial progenitors. Furthermore, GLT1 was significantly increased in cultured mature OLs contrary to in vivo data in which we have shown that, although GLT1 is present on developing OLs when unmyelinated axons are prevalent in the developing rat corpus callosum, after myelination, GLT1 is not expressed on mature OLs. The absence of GLT1 in mature OLs in the rat corpus callosum and its presence in mature rat cultured OLs may indicate that a signaling process in vivo is not activated in vitro.	The major neuropathological correlate of cerebral palsy in premature infants is periventricular leukomalacia (PVL), a disorder of the immature cerebral white matter. Cerebral ischemia leading to excitotoxicity is thought to be important in the pathogenesis of this disorder, implying a critical role for glutamate transporters, the major determinants of extracellular glutamate concentration. Previously, we found that EAAT2 expression is limited primarily to premyelinating oligodendrocytes early in development and is rarely observed in astrocytes until &gt;40 weeks. In this study, we analyzed the expression of EAAT2 in cerebral white matter from PVL and control cases. Western blot analysis suggested an up-regulation of EAAT2 in PVL compared with control cases. Single- and double-label immunocytochemistry showed a significantly higher percentage of EAAT2-immunopositive astrocytes in PVL (51.8% +/- 5.6%) compared with control white matter (21.4% +/- 5.6%; P = 0.004). Macrophages in the necrotic foci in PVL also expressed EAAT2. Premyelinating oligodendrocytes in both PVL and control cases expressed EAAT2, without qualitative difference in expression. The previously unrecognized up-regulation of EAAT2 in reactive astrocytes and its presence in macrophages in PVL reported here may reflect a response to either hypoxic-ischemic injury or inflammation.
Dey, Tanujit	Quantitative Health Sciences	31034314	30921170	30735197	30109948	29794620	29577998	29549082	28976724	28527232	28218596	The aim of this project was to 1) evaluate the potential of the Two Minute Walk Test (2MWT) to detect declines in gait velocity under dual task conditions, and 2) compare gait velocity overground and on a self-paced treadmill in Parkinson's disease (PD). Twenty-three individuals with PD completed the 2MWT under single and dual task (serial 7s) conditions overground and on a self-paced treadmill. There was a significant decrease in gait velocity from single to dual task conditions overground (1.32±.22 m/sec to 1.10±.25 m/sec, p &lt;.001) and on the self-paced treadmill (1.24±.21 m/sec to 1.05±.25 m/sec, p &lt;.001). Overground and treadmill velocities were not statistically different from each other; however, differences approached or exceeded the minimal clinical important difference. The 2MWT coupled with a cognitive task provides an effective model of identifying dual task declines in individuals with PD. Further studies comparing overground and self-paced treadmill velocity is warranted in PD.	In older adults hospitalized with heart failure (HF), cognitive impairment is associated with increased hospital readmission and mortality risk. There is no consensus on an objective, scalable method of cognitive screening in this population. The aim of this project was to determine the feasibility, test-retest reliability, and convergent validity of the Processing Speed Test (PST), a test of information processing, attention, and working memory administered on an iPad in older adults hospitalized with HF. Patients hospitalized with HF (n = 30) and age-, sex-, and education-matched controls (n = 30) participated in the study. To determine test-retest reliability, the PST was administered on an iPad on 2 occasions, separated by 12 to 48 hours. The Symbol Digit Modalities Test was administered at the first testing time point to determine convergent validity. Test-retest reliability of the PST was 0.80 and 0.92 in individuals with HF and controls, respectively. Convergent validity was 0.72 and 0.90 for individuals with HF and controls, respectively. Time to complete the PST was similar for both individuals with HF and controls (&lt;5 minutes). The iPad-based deployment of the PST was a feasible, reliable, and valid cognitive screen for older adults hospitalized with HF. Using a tablet-based self-administered cognitive screen in older adults with HF provides a method of cognitive assessment that is amenable to widespread clinical utilization.	The evidence-informed standardization of care along disease lines is recommended to improve outcomes and reduce healthcare costs. The aim of this project is to 1) describe the development and implementation of the Concussion Carepath, 2) demonstrate the process of integrating technology in the form of a mobile application to enable the carepath and guide clinical decision-making, and 3) present data on the utility of the C3 app in facilitating decision-making throughout the injury recovery process. A multi-disciplinary team of experts in concussion care was formed to develop an evidence-informed algorithm, outlining best practices for the clinical management of concussion along three phases of recovery - acute, subacute, and post-concussive. A custom mobile application, the Cleveland Clinic Concussion (C3) app was developed and validated to provide a platform for the systematic collection of objective, biomechanical outcomes and to provide guidance in clinical decision-making in the field and clinical environments. The Cleveland Clinic Concussion app included an electronic incident report, assessment modules to measure important aspects of cognitive and motor function, and a return to play module to systematically document the six phases of post-injury rehabilitation. The assessment modules served as qualifiers within the carepath algorithm, driving referral for specialty services as indicated. Overall, the carepath coupled with the C3 app functioned in unison to facilitate communication among the interdisciplinary team, prevent stagnant care, and drive patients to the right provider at the right time for efficient and effective clinical management.	 Annually, more than 1 million youth athletes in the United States receive or are suspected of receiving a concussion. The Balance Error Scoring System (BESS) is the most commonly used clinical balance evaluation designed to provide a better understanding of the motor-control processes of individuals with concussion. Despite the widespread use of the BESS, a fundamental gap exists in applying this tool to young athletes, as normative values are lacking for this population.  To determine age- and sex-specific normative values for the BESS in youth, high school, and collegiate athletes.  Cross-sectional study.  Local youth sport organizations, high schools, and colleges.  Student-athletes (N = 6762) completed preseason baseline concussion testing as part of a comprehensive concussion-management program. Groups were youth males aged 5 to 13 years (n = 360), high school males aged 14 to 18 years (n = 3743), collegiate males aged 19 to 23 years (n = 497), youth females aged 5 to 13 years (n = 246), high school females aged 14 to 18 years (n = 1673), and collegiate females aged 19 to 23 years (n = 243).  Errors according to the BESS specifications.  Performance on the BESS was worse ( P &lt; .01) in youth athletes than in high school and collegiate athletes. In the youth and high school cohorts, females exhibited better scores than males ( P &lt; .05). Sex was not a factor for collegiate athletes. Data from the youth cohort were further subdivided into 4-year bins to evaluate potential motor-development differences. The error count was highest for 5- to 9-year-old males and decreased with age.  Performance on the BESS depended on sex and age, particularly in youth athletes. These sex- and age-specific normative values provide a reference to facilitate and unify clinical decision making across multiple providers caring for youth athletes with concussions.	Despite the widespread utilization of the Balance Error Scoring System (BESS) in the evaluation of concussion, it has been criticized for its error-based scoring that is susceptible to floor and ceiling effects and substantial inter-rater variability. A biomechanical outcome, Cleveland Clinic Postural Stability Index (CC-PSI), has been developed as an alternative to subjective BESS scoring. The CC-PSI uses inertial sensor data within a mobile device to provide an objective measure of postural sway during the BESS. This project aimed to determine the effect of age and sex on the CC-PSI and report normative values for healthy, active children, adolescents, and young adults. A cross-sectional sample of 6762 student-athletes completed BESS testing. Participants were stratified according to three age groups for each sex. The groups included the following: youth (age, 5-13 yr), males (n = 360), females (n = 246); high school (age, 14-18 yr), males (n = 3743), females (n = 1673); and college (age, 19-23 yr), males (n = 497), females (n = 243). Percentile rankings were determined for each participant to characterize movement of COM in the medial-lateral, anterior-posterior, and trunk rotation directions relative to the entire cohort during the BESS stances. Overall, postural stability was worse in youth compared with high school and collegiate athletes. Specifically, the CC-PSI was significantly worse in youth male athletes compared with high school and collegiate male athletes (P &lt; 0.001). Females exhibited significantly better scores compared with males in youth and high school cohorts (P &lt; 0.01). The CC-PSI provides a quantitative, objective measure of postural stability, overcoming the limitations associated with conventional BESS scoring. Optimal concussion management should use objective age- and sex-specific values in the evaluation of postural stability. The normative values of the CC-PSI may be used in the absence of a baseline BESS evaluation to aid clinical decision making.	Gait dysfunction, a hallmark of Parkinson's disease, contributes to a relatively high incidence of falling. Gait function is further diminished during the performance of a motor-cognitive task (i.e., dual-task). It is unclear if Parkinson's disease-related dual-task deficits are related to a specific area of cognitive function or are the result of a more global decline in executive function. The aim of this project was to systematically evaluate gait performance to determine if gait dysfunction is restricted to certain types of executive function or a global phenomenon in individuals with Parkinson's disease. Twenty-three individuals with mild-moderate Parkinson's disease completed a series of dual-task conditions in which gait was paired with cognitive tasks requiring: working memory (0, 1, and 2-back), attention and problem solving (serial-7 subtraction), verbal memory (digit recall), semantic memory (Controlled Oral Word Association) and information processing speed (visual Stroop test). The results demonstrate that individuals with mild-moderate Parkinson's disease have a generalized worsening of spatial-temporal gait parameters regardless of the specific cognitive demand being performed concurrently. Overall, gait velocity decreased (p &lt; 0.01) and stride and stance time both increased (p &lt; 0.01) across all cognitive conditions. The attention and problem solving task resulted in the greatest number of gait parameter decrements. Results indicated that performance on cognitive tasks remained unchanged from single-task to dual-task conditions. Diminished gait performance under dual-task conditions across different cognitive function domains suggests a global Parkinson's disease-related deficit in information processing and regulation of gait.	To identify severe hypoglycemia events, defined as emergency department visits or hospitalizations for hypoglycemia, in patients with type 2 diabetes receiving care in a large health system and to identify patient characteristics associated with severe hypoglycemia events. This was a retrospective cohort study from January 2006 to December 2015 using the electronic medical record in the Cleveland Clinic Health System (CCHS). Participants included 50,439 patients with type 2 diabetes receiving care in the CCHS. Number of severe hypoglycemia events and associated patient characteristics were identified. The incidence proportion of severe hypoglycemia increased from 0.12% in 2006 to 0.31% in 2015 (P = 0.01). Compared with patients who did not experience severe hypoglycemia, those with severe hypoglycemia had similar median glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) levels. More patients with severe hypoglycemia versus those without had a prior diagnosis of nonsevere hypoglycemia (9% vs. 2%, P &lt; 0.001). Logistic regression confirmed an increased odds for severe hypoglycemia with insulin, sulfonylureas, increased number of diabetes medications, history of nonsevere hypoglycemia (odds ratio [OR] 3.01, P &lt; 0.001), HbA1c &lt;6% (42 mmol/mol) (OR 1.95, P &lt; 0.001), black race, and increased Charlson comorbidity index. Lower odds of severe hypoglycemia were noted with higher BMI and use of metformin, dipeptidyl peptidase 4 inhibitors, and glucagon-like peptide 1 agonists. In this retrospective study of patients with type 2 diabetes with severe hypoglycemia, patient characteristics were identified. Patients with severe hypoglycemia had previous nonsevere hypoglycemia diagnoses more frequently than those without. Identifying patients at high risk at the point of care can allow for change in modifiable risk factors and prevention of severe hypoglycemia events.	The aim of the present study was to assess the longitudinal accumulation of diabetes-related complications and the effect of glycemic control on the Diabetes Complications Severity Index (DCSI) score in people with newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes (T2D). A retrospective cohort study was conducted using electronic health records from a large integrated healthcare system. People with newly diagnosed T2D were identified between 2005 and 2016 and stratified by initial HbA1c category (&lt;7%, &lt;8%, ≥8%). The DCSI scores were determined for each study year, and the cumulative incidence of diabetes-related complications was assessed. A Cox proportional hazard model was used to evaluate the effect of baseline HbA1c and worsening glycemic (HbA1c) control on longitudinal changes in DCSI scores. Of 32 174 people identified as having newly diagnosed T2D, 14 016 (44%), 21 657 (67%), and 9983 (31%) had an initial or baseline HbA1c &lt;7%, &lt;8%, and ≥8%, respectively. Ten years after diabetes diagnosis, retinopathy, chronic kidney disease, coronary heart disease, and neuropathy were diagnosed in 22%, 29%, 24%, and 36% of people. Baseline HbA1c did not affect the observed trend in longitudinal changes in DCSI scores throughout the 11-year period. For people in each of the initial HbA1c groups (&lt;7%, &lt;8%, ≥8%), worsening or persistently poor glycemic control was significantly associated with a 10%, 19%, or 16% increase in the risk of experiencing an increased DCSI score, respectively (all P &lt; 0.01). Baseline glycemic control had no apparent effect on longitudinal changes in DCSI score. Worsening or persistently poor glycemic control was associated with an increased risk of an increase in the DCSI score.	Postural instability is a hallmark of Parkinson's disease. Objective metrics to characterize postural stability are necessary for the development of treatment algorithms to aid in the clinical setting. The aim of this project was to validate a mobile device platform and resultant three-dimensional balance metric that characterizes postural stability. A mobile Application was developed, in which biomechanical data from inertial sensors within a mobile device were processed to characterize movement of center of mass in the medial-lateral, anterior-posterior and trunk rotation directions. Twenty-seven individuals with Parkinson's disease and 27 age-matched controls completed various balance tasks. A postural stability metric quantifying the amplitude (peak-to-peak) of sway acceleration in each movement direction was compared between groups. The peak-to-peak value in each direction for each individual with Parkinson's disease across all trials was expressed as a normalized value of the control data to identify individuals with severe postural instability, termed Cleveland Clinic-Postural Stability Index. In all conditions, the balance metric for peak-to-peak was significantly greater in Parkinson's disease compared to controls (p &lt; 0.01 for all tests). The balance metric, in conjunction with mobile device sensors, provides a rapid and systematic metric for quantifying postural stability in Parkinson's disease.	To understand how two types of aerobic exercise affect upper-extremity motor recovery post-stroke. Our aims were to (1) evaluate the feasibility of having people who had a stroke complete an aerobic exercise intervention and (2) determine whether forced or voluntary exercise differentially facilitates upper-extremity recovery when paired with task practice. Seventeen participants with chronic stroke completed twenty-four 90-min sessions over 8 wk. Aerobic exercise was immediately followed by task practice. Participants were randomized to forced or voluntary aerobic exercise groups or to task practice only. Improvement on the Fugl-Meyer Assessment exceeded the minimal clinically important difference: 12.3, 4.8, and 4.4 for the forced exercise, voluntary exercise, and repetitive task practice-only groups, respectively. Only the forced exercise group exhibited a statistically significant improvement. People with chronic stroke can safely complete intensive aerobic exercise. Forced aerobic exercise may be optimal in facilitating motor recovery associated with task practice.
DiDonato, Joseph	Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences	26617517	24558038	23969698	22435567	15324458	15280659	15212686	15108329	11698579	10914035	High-density lipoprotein (HDL) and apolipoprotein A-I (apoA-I), the predominant protein in plasma HDL, have long been the focus of intense studies in the field of atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease. ApoA-I, in large part, is responsible for HDL assembly and its main atheroprotective function, that of shuttling excess cholesterol from peripheral tissues to the liver for excretion (reverse cholesterol transport). Recently, a protective role for HDL in cancer was suggested from several large clinical studies where an inverse relationship between plasma HDL-cholesterol (HDL-C) levels and risk of developing cancer was noted. This notion has now been tested and found to be supported in mouse tumor studies, where increasing levels of apoA-I/HDL were discovered to protect against tumor development and provision of human apoA-I was therapeutic against established tumors. This mini-review discusses the emerging role of apoA-I in tumor biology and its potential as cancer therapeutic. 	We reported previously that apolipoprotein A-I (apoA-I) is oxidatively modified in the artery wall at tyrosine 166 (Tyr(166)), serving as a preferred site for post-translational modification through nitration. Recent studies, however, question the extent and functional importance of apoA-I Tyr(166) nitration based upon studies of HDL-like particles recovered from atherosclerotic lesions. We developed a monoclonal antibody (mAb 4G11.2) that recognizes, in both free and HDL-bound forms, apoA-I harboring a 3-nitrotyrosine at position 166 apoA-I (NO2-Tyr(166)-apoA-I) to investigate the presence, distribution, and function of this modified apoA-I form in atherosclerotic and normal artery wall. We also developed recombinant apoA-I with site-specific 3-nitrotyrosine incorporation only at position 166 using an evolved orthogonal nitro-Tyr-aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase/tRNACUA pair for functional studies. Studies with mAb 4G11.2 showed that NO2-Tyr(166)-apoA-I was easily detected in atherosclerotic human coronary arteries and accounted for ∼ 8% of total apoA-I within the artery wall but was nearly undetectable (&gt;100-fold less) in normal coronary arteries. Buoyant density ultracentrifugation analyses showed that NO2-Tyr(166)-apoA-I existed as a lipid-poor lipoprotein with &lt;3% recovered within the HDL-like fraction (d = 1.063-1.21). NO2-Tyr(166)-apoA-I in plasma showed a similar distribution. Recovery of NO2-Tyr(166)-apoA-I using immobilized mAb 4G11.2 showed an apoA-I form with 88.1 ± 8.5% reduction in lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase activity, a finding corroborated using a recombinant apoA-I specifically designed to include the unnatural amino acid exclusively at position 166. Thus, site-specific nitration of apoA-I at Tyr(166) is an abundant modification within the artery wall that results in selective functional impairments. Plasma levels of this modified apoA-I form may provide insights into a pathophysiological process within the diseased artery wall.	Prior studies show that apolipoprotein A1 (apoA1) recovered from human atherosclerotic lesions is highly oxidized. Ex vivo oxidation of apoA1 or high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cross-links apoA1 and impairs lipid binding, cholesterol efflux, and lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase activities of the lipoprotein. Remarkably, no studies to date directly quantify either the function or HDL particle distribution of apoA1 recovered from the human artery wall. A monoclonal antibody (10G1.5) was developed that equally recognizes lipid-free and HDL-associated apoA1 in both native and oxidized forms. Examination of homogenates of atherosclerotic plaque-laden aorta showed &gt;100-fold enrichment of apoA1 compared with normal aorta (P&lt;0.001). Surprisingly, buoyant density fractionation revealed that only a minority (&lt;3% of total) of apoA1 recovered from either lesions or normal aorta resides within an HDL-like particle (1.063≤d≤1.21). In contrast, the majority (&gt;90%) of apoA1 within aortic tissue (normal and lesions) was recovered within the lipoprotein-depleted fraction (d&gt;1.21). Moreover, both lesion and normal artery wall apoA1 are highly cross-linked (50% to 70% of total), and functional characterization of apoA1 quantitatively recovered from aorta with the use of monoclonal antibody 10G1.5 showed ≈80% lower cholesterol efflux activity and ≈90% lower lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase activity relative to circulating apoA1. The function and distribution of apoA1 in human aorta are quite distinct from those found in plasma. The lipoprotein is markedly enriched within atherosclerotic plaque, predominantly lipid-poor, not associated with HDL, extensively oxidatively cross-linked, and functionally impaired.	The nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) transcription factor family has been considered the central mediator of the inflammatory process and a key participant in innate and adaptive immune responses. Coincident with the molecular cloning of NF-κB/RelA and identification of its kinship to the v-Rel oncogene, it was anticipated that NF-κB itself would be involved in cancer development. Oncogenic activating mutations in NF-κB genes are rare and have been identified only in some lymphoid malignancies, while most NF-κB activating mutations in lymphoid malignancies occur in upstream signaling components that feed into NF-κB. NF-κB activation is also prevalent in carcinomas, in which NF-κB activation is mainly driven by inflammatory cytokines within the tumor microenvironment. Importantly, however, in all malignancies, NF-κB acts in a cell type-specific manner: activating survival genes within cancer cells and inflammation-promoting genes in components of the tumor microenvironment. Yet, the complex biological functions of NF-κB have made its therapeutic targeting a challenge.	Infection of intestinal epithelial cells by pathogenic Salmonella leads to activation of signaling cascades that ultimately initiate the proinflammatory gene program. The transcription factor NF-kappa B is a key regulator/activator of this gene program and is potently activated. We explored the mechanism by which Salmonella activates NF-kappa B during infection of cultured intestinal epithelial cells and found that flagellin produced by the bacteria and contained on them leads to NF-kappa B activation in all the cells; invasion of cells by the bacteria is not required to activate NF-kappa B. Purified flagellin activated the mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK), stress-activated protein kinase (SAPK) and I kappa B kinase (IKK) signaling pathways that lead to expression of the proinflammatory gene program in a temporal fashion nearly identical to that of infection of intestinal epithelial cells by Salmonella. Flagellin expression was required for Salmonella invasion of host cells and it activated NF-kappa B via toll-like receptor 5 (TLR5). Surprisingly, a number of cell lines found to be unresponsive to flagellin express TLR5 and expression of exogenous TLR5 in these cells induces NF-kappa B activity in response to flagellin challenge although not robustly. Conversely, overexpression of dominant-negative TLR5 alleles only partially blocks NF-kappa B activation by flagellin. These observations are consistent with the possibility of either a very stable TLR5 signaling complex, the existence of a low abundance flagellin co-receptor or required adapter, or both. These collective results provide the evidence that flagellin acts as the main determinant of Salmonella mediated NF-kappa B and proinflammatory signaling and gene activation by this flagellated pathogen. In addition, expression of the fli C gene appears to play an important role in the proper functioning of the TTSS since mutants that fail to express fli C are defective in expressing a subset of Sip proteins and fail to invade host cells. Flagellin added in trans cannot restore the ability of the fli C mutant bacteria to invade intestinal epithelial cells. Lastly, TLR5 expression in weak and non-responding cells indicates that additional factors may be required for efficient signal propagation in response to flagellin recognition.	Studies have shown that Resveratrol (RE) can inhibit cancer initiation, promotion, and progression. However the gene expression profile in renal cell carcinoma (RCC) in response to RE treatment has never been reported. To understand the potential anticancer effect of RE on RCC at molecular level, we profiled and analyzed the expression of 2059 cancer-related genes in a RCC cell line RCC54 treated with RE. Biological functions of 633 genes were annotated based on biological process ontology and clustered into functional categories. Twenty-nine highly differentially expressed genes in RE treated RCC54 were identified and the potential implications of some gene expression alterations in RCC carcinogenesis were identified. RE was also shown to inhibit cell growth and induce cell death of RCC cells. The expression alterations of selected genes were validated using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. In addition, the gene expression profiles under different RE treatments were analyzed and visualized using singular value decomposition. The findings from this study support the hypothesis that RE induces differential expression of genes that are directly or indirectly related to the inhibition of RCC cell growth and induction of RCC cell death. In addition, it is apparent that the gene expression alterations due to RE treatment depend strongly on RE concentration. This study provides a general understanding of the overall genetic response of RCC54 to RE treatment and yields insights into the understanding of the cancer preventive mechanism of RE in RCC.	Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is the most common cancer in adult kidney. The accuracy of current diagnosis and prognosis of the disease and the effectiveness of the treatment for the disease are limited by the poor understanding of the disease at the molecular level. To better understand the genetics and biology of RCC, we profiled the expression of 7,129 genes in both clear cell RCC tissue and cell lines using oligonucleotide arrays. Total RNAs isolated from renal cell tumors, adjacent normal tissue and metastatic RCC cell lines were hybridized to affymatrix HuFL oligonucleotide arrays. Genes were categorized into different functional groups based on the description of the Gene Ontology Consortium and analyzed based on the gene expression levels. Gene expression profiles of the tissue and cell line samples were visualized and classified by singular value decomposition. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction was performed to confirm the expression alterations of selected genes in RCC. Selected genes were annotated based on biological processes and clustered into functional groups. The expression levels of genes in each group were also analyzed. Seventy-four commonly differentially expressed genes with more than five-fold changes in RCC tissues were identified. The expression alterations of selected genes from these seventy-four genes were further verified using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Detailed comparison of gene expression patterns in RCC tissue and RCC cell lines shows significant differences between the two types of samples, but many important expression patterns were preserved. This is one of the initial studies that examine the functional ontology of a large number of genes in RCC. Extensive annotation, clustering and analysis of a large number of genes based on the gene functional ontology revealed many interesting gene expression patterns in RCC. Most notably, genes involved in cell adhesion were dominantly up-regulated whereas genes involved in transport were dominantly down-regulated. This study reveals significant gene expression alterations in key biological pathways and provides potential insights into understanding the molecular mechanism of renal cell carcinogenesis.	Characterizing the alterations of protein expression in cancer cells can be very useful in providing insight into the changes in the functional pathways and thus the fundamental mechanisms of cancer development at the molecular level. In this study, we profiled protein expressions in eleven pairs of primary cell cultures derived from renal-cell carcinoma (RCC) tissues and patient-matched normal kidney tissues utilizing two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (2-D PAGE). Together with the immunoblot analysis of proteins from the RCC tissues, the study also demonstrated that the alterations of protein expression observed in RCC primary cell cultures reflected those observed in the original RCC tissues. We analyzed the expression profiles and identified proteins differentially expressed in RCC primary cell cultures by 2-D PAGE and mass spectrometry (MS). We found sixteen proteins were overexpressed and seven proteins underexpressed in RCC. The deregulated expressions of proteins include those involved in metabolism, cellular morphology, heat shock response, cell growth, etc. Overexpression of three proteins, alphabeta-crystallin, manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD), and annexin IV, most commonly observed in primary RCC cell cultures, were also observed by immunoblot analysis of proteins from the RCC tissues from which the primary cell cultures were derived. Semi-quantitative reverse transcription (RT)-polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis revealed the direct correlation between deregulated gene expression and the corresponding protein abundance in two of the three most commonly upregulated proteins we found in RCC.	Inhibitor of kappaB kinase alpha (IKK alpha) was originally identified as a component of a multiprotein kinase complex that regulates the activity of the transcription factor nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) through phosphorylation of its inhibitor proteins, the IkappaBs. DiDonato discusses new roles that have been discovered for IKK alpha, focusing especially on its role in epidermal differentiation and on a new function of IKK alpha in B cell maturation. In epidermal differentiation, IKK alpha regulates the production of a secreted differentiation factor through a pathway that is independent of its role in activation of NF-kappaB. In B cell maturation, conventional NF-kappaB signal-induced activation of IKK alpha results in phosphorylation of p100 precursor proteins and increased proteolytic processing and constitutive NF-kappaB activation.	NA
Driscoll, Donna	Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences	28917037	25692238	23777426	23614019	21685449	20385601	19716792	19106619	17901054	15821744	This chapter explains the use of RNase-assisted RNA chromatography. RNA affinity chromatography is a powerful technique that is used to isolate and identify proteins that bind to a specific RNA ligand. The RNA of interest is attached to beads before protein lysates are passed over the column. In traditional RNA chromatography, bound proteins are eluted with high salt or harsh detergent, which can also release proteins that are nonspecifically bound to the beads. To avoid this, a new method was developed in which RNases are used to cleave RNA from the beads, releasing only RNA binding proteins (RBPs) and leaving behind proteins that are bound to the beads (Michlewski and Caceres, RNA 16(8):1673-1678, 2010). This chapter will describe the isolation of proteins that bind specifically to the distal region of the Selenoprotein S 3' untranslated region (3' UTR).	Selenium, a micronutrient, is primarily incorporated into human physiology as selenocysteine (Sec). The 25 Sec-containing proteins in humans are known as selenoproteins. Their synthesis depends on the translational recoding of the UGA stop codon to allow Sec insertion. This requires a stem-loop structure in the 3' untranslated region of eukaryotic mRNAs known as the Selenocysteine Insertion Sequence (SECIS). The SECIS is recognized by SECIS-binding protein 2 (SBP2) and this RNA:protein interaction is essential for UGA recoding to occur. Genetic mutations cause SBP2 deficiency in humans, resulting in a broad set of symptoms due to differential effects on individual selenoproteins. Progress on understanding the different phenotypes requires developing robust tools to investigate SBP2 structure and function. In this study we demonstrate that SBP2 protein produced by in vitro translation discriminates among SECIS elements in a competitive UGA recoding assay and has a much higher specific activity than bacterially expressed protein. We also show that a purified recombinant protein encompassing amino acids 517-777 of SBP2 binds to SECIS elements with high affinity and selectivity. The affinity of the SBP2:SECIS interaction correlated with the ability of a SECIS to compete for UGA recoding activity in vitro. The identification of a 250 amino acid sequence that mediates specific, selective SECIS-binding will facilitate future structural studies of the SBP2:SECIS complex. Finally, we identify an evolutionarily conserved core cysteine signature in SBP2 sequences from the vertebrate lineage. Mutation of multiple, but not single, cysteines impaired SECIS-binding but did not affect protein localization in cells. 	Ribosomal protein L30 belongs to the L7Ae family of RNA-binding proteins, which recognize diverse targets. L30 binds to kink-turn motifs in the 28S ribosomal RNA, L30 pre-mRNA, and mature L30 mRNA. L30 has a noncanonical function as a component of the UGA recoding machinery that incorporates selenocysteine (Sec) into selenoproteins during translation. L30 binds to a putative kink-turn motif in the Sec Insertion Sequence (SECIS) element in the 3' UTR of mammalian selenoprotein mRNAs. The SECIS also interacts with SECIS-binding protein 2 (SBP2), an essential factor for Sec incorporation. Previous studies showed that L30 and SBP2 compete for binding to the SECIS in vitro. The SBP2:SECIS interaction has been characterized but much less is known about how L30 recognizes the SECIS. Here we use enzymatic RNA footprinting to define the L30 binding site on the SECIS. Like SBP2, L30 protects nucleotides in the 5' side of the internal loop, the 5' side of the lower helix, and the SECIS core, including the GA tandem base pairs that are predicted to form a kink-turn. However, L30 has additional determinants for binding as it also protects nucleotides in the 3' side of the internal loop, which are not protected by SBP2. In support of the competitive binding model, we found that purified L30 repressed UGA recoding in an in vitro translation system, and that this inhibition was rescued by SBP2. To define the amino acid requirements for SECIS-binding, site-specific mutations in L30 were generated based on published structural studies of this protein in a complex with its canonical target, the L30 pre-mRNA. We identified point mutations that selectively inhibited binding of L30 to the SECIS, to the L30 pre-mRNA, or both RNAs, suggesting that there are subtle differences in how L30 interacts with the two targets. This study establishes that L30 and SBP2 bind to overlapping but non-identical sites on the SECIS. The amino acid requirements for the interaction of L30 with the SECIS differ from those that mediate binding to the L30 pre-mRNA. Our results provide insight into how L7Ae family members recognize their cognate RNAs.	Selenoprotein S (SelS) is a 189 amino acid trans-membrane protein that plays an important yet undefined role in the unfolded protein response. It has been proposed that SelS may function as a reductase, with the penultimate selenocysteine (Sec(188)) residue participating in a selenosulfide bond with cysteine (Cys(174)). Cotranslational incorporation of Sec into SelS depends on the recoding of the UGA codon, which requires a Selenocysteine Insertion Sequence (SECIS) element in the 3'UTR of the transcript. Here we identify multiple mechanisms that regulate the expression of SelS. The human SelS gene encodes two transcripts (variants 1 and 2), which differ in their 3'UTR sequences due to an alternative splicing event that removes the SECIS element from the variant 1 transcript. Both transcripts are widely expressed in human cell lines, with the SECIS-containing variant 2 mRNA being more abundant. In vitro experiments demonstrate that the variant 1 3'UTR does not allow readthrough of the UGA/Sec codon. Thus, this transcript would produce a truncated protein that does not contain Sec and cannot make the selenosulfide bond. While the variant 2 3'UTR does support Sec insertion, its activity is weak. Bioinformatic analysis revealed two highly conserved stem-loop structures, one in the proximal part of the variant 2 3'UTR and the other immediately downstream of the SECIS element. The proximal stem-loop promotes Sec insertion in the native context but not when positioned far from the UGA/Sec codon in a heterologous mRNA. In contrast, the 140 nucleotides downstream of the SECIS element inhibit Sec insertion. We also show that endogenous SelS is enriched at perinuclear speckles, in addition to its known localization in the endoplasmic reticulum. Our results suggest the expression of endogenous SelS is more complex than previously appreciated, which has implications for past and future studies on the function of this protein.	eIF4a3, a DEAD-box protein family member, is a component of the exon junction complex which assembles on spliced mRNAs. The protein also acts as a transcript-selective translational repressor of selenoprotein synthesis during selenium deficiency. Selenocysteine (Sec) incorporation into selenoproteins requires a Sec Insertion Sequence (SECIS) element in the 3' untranslated region. During selenium deficiency, eIF4a3 binds SECIS elements from non-essential selenoproteins, preventing Sec insertion. We identified a molecular signature for the eIF4a3-SECIS interaction using RNA gel shifts, surface plasmon resonance and enzymatic foot printing. Our results support a two-site interaction model, where eIF4a3 binds the internal and apical loops of the SECIS. Additionally, the stability of the complex requires uridine in the SECIS core. In terms of protein requirements, the two globular domains of eIF4a3, which are connected by a linker, are both critical for SECIS binding. Compared to full-length eIF4a3, the two domains in trans bind with a lower association rate but notably, the uridine is no longer important for complex stability. These results provide insight into how eIF4a3 discriminates among SECIS elements and represses translation.	Selenium, an essential trace element, is incorporated into selenoproteins as selenocysteine (Sec), the 21st amino acid. In order to synthesize selenoproteins, a translational reprogramming event must occur since Sec is encoded by the UGA stop codon. In mammals, the recoding of UGA as Sec depends on the selenocysteine insertion sequence (SECIS) element, a stem-loop structure in the 3' untranslated region of the transcript. The SECIS acts as a platform for RNA-binding proteins, which mediate or regulate the recoding mechanism. Using UV crosslinking, we identified a 110 kDa protein, which binds with high affinity to SECIS elements from a subset of selenoprotein mRNAs. The crosslinking activity was purified by RNA affinity chromatography and identified as nucleolin by mass spectrometry analysis. In vitro binding assays showed that purified nucleolin discriminates among SECIS elements in the absence of other factors. Based on siRNA experiments, nucleolin is required for the optimal expression of certain selenoproteins. There was a good correlation between the affinity of nucleolin for a SECIS and its effect on selenoprotein expression. As selenoprotein transcript levels and localization did not change in siRNA-treated cells, our results suggest that nucleolin selectively enhances the expression of a subset of selenoproteins at the translational level.	The synthesis of selenoproteins requires the translational recoding of the UGA stop codon as selenocysteine. During selenium deficiency, there is a hierarchy of selenoprotein expression, with certain selenoproteins synthesized at the expense of others. The mechanism by which the limiting selenocysteine incorporation machinery is preferentially utilized to maintain the expression of essential selenoproteins has not been elucidated. Here we demonstrate that eukaryotic initiation factor 4a3 (eIF4a3) is involved in the translational control of a subset of selenoproteins. The interaction of eIF4a3 with the selenoprotein mRNA prevents the binding of SECIS binding protein 2, which is required for selenocysteine insertion, thereby inhibiting the synthesis of the selenoprotein. Furthermore, the expression of eIF4a3 is regulated in response to selenium. Based on knockdown and overexpression studies, eIF4a3 is necessary and sufficient to mediate selective translational repression in cells. Our results support a model in which eIF4a3 links selenium status with differential selenoprotein expression.	The human selenoproteome is composed of approximately 25 selenoproteins, which cotranslationally incorporate selenocysteine, the 21st amino acid. Selenoprotein expression requires an unusual translation mechanism, as selenocysteine is encoded by the UGA stop codon. SECIS-binding protein 2 (SBP2) is an essential component of the selenocysteine insertion machinery. SBP2 is also the only factor known to differentiate among selenoprotein mRNAs, thereby modulating the relative expression of the individual selenoproteins. Here, we show that expression of SBP2 protein varies widely across tissues and cell types examined, despite previous observations of only modest variation in SBP2 mRNA levels. This discrepancy between SBP2 mRNA and protein levels implies translational regulation, which is often mediated via untranslated regions (UTRs) in regulated transcripts. We have identified multiple sequences in the SBP2 3' UTR that are highly conserved. The proximal short conserved region is GU rich and was subsequently shown to be a binding site for CUG-BP1. The distal half of the 3' UTR is largely conserved, and multiple proteins interact with this region. One of these proteins was identified as HuR. Both CUG-BP1 and HuR are members of the Turnover and Translation Regulatory RNA-Binding Protein family (TTR-RBP). Members of this protein family are linked by the common ability to rapidly effect gene expression through alterations in the stability and translatability of target mRNAs. The identification of CUG-BP1 and HuR as factors that bind to the SBP2 3' UTR suggests that TTR-RBPs play a role in the regulation of SBP2, which then dictates the expression of the selenoproteome.	The expression of selenoproteins requires the translational recoding of the UGA stop codon to selenocysteine. In eukaryotes, this requires an RNA stem loop structure in the 3'-untranslated region, termed a selenocysteine insertion sequence (SECIS), and SECIS-binding protein 2 (SBP2). This study implicates SBP2 in dictating the hierarchy of selenoprotein expression, because it is the first to show that SBP2 distinguishes between SECIS elements in vitro. Using RNA electrophoretic mobility shift assays, we demonstrate that a naturally occurring mutation in SBP2, which correlates with abnormal thyroid hormone function in humans, lies within a novel, bipartite RNA-binding domain. This mutation alters the RNA binding affinity of SBP2 such that it no longer stably interacts with a subset of SECIS elements. Assays performed under competitive conditions to mimic intracellular conditions suggest that the differential affinity of SBP2 for various SECIS elements will determine the expression pattern of the selenoproteome. We hypothesize that the selective loss of a subset of selenoproteins, including some involved in thyroid hormone homeostasis, is responsible for the abnormal thyroid hormone metabolism previously observed in the affected individuals.	The translational recoding of UGA as selenocysteine (Sec) is directed by a SECIS element in the 3' untranslated region (UTR) of eukaryotic selenoprotein mRNAs. The selenocysteine insertion sequence (SECIS) contains two essential tandem sheared G.A pairs that bind SECIS-binding protein 2 (SBP2), which recruits a selenocysteine-specific elongation factor and Sec-tRNA(Sec) to the ribosome. Here we show that ribosomal protein L30 is a component of the eukaryotic selenocysteine recoding machinery. L30 binds SECIS elements in vitro and in vivo, stimulates UGA recoding in transfected cells and competes with SBP2 for SECIS binding. Magnesium, known to induce a kink-turn in RNAs that contain two tandem G.A pairs, decreases the SBP2-SECIS complex in favor of the L30-SECIS interaction. We propose a model in which SBP2 and L30 carry out different functions in the UGA recoding mechanism, with the SECIS acting as a molecular switch upon protein binding.
Dutta, Ranjan	Neurosciences	30270725	29754529	28821749	24722325	24507515	23996595	23595422	21446020	21147224	20946934	Current multiple sclerosis (MS) therapies are effective in reducing relapse rate, short-term measures of disability, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) measures of inflammation in relapsing remitting MS (RRMS), whereas in progressive/degenerative disease phases these medications are of little or no benefit. Therefore, the development of new therapies aimed at reversing neurodegeneration is of great interest. Remyelination, which is usually a spontaneous endogenous process, is achieved when myelin-producing oligodendrocytes are generated from oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs). Even though these precursor cells are abundant in MS brains, their regeneration capacity is limited. Enhancing the generation of myelin-producing cells is therefore a major focus of MS research. Here we present an overview of the different advancements in the field of remyelination, including suitable animal models for testing remyelination therapies, approved medications with a proposed role in regeneration, myelin repair treatments under investigation in clinical trials, as well as future therapeutics aimed at facilitating myelin repair.	NA	Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is an immune-mediated demyelinating disease of the human central nervous system (CNS). Memory impairments and hippocampal demyelination are common features in MS patients. Our previous data have shown that demyelination alters neuronal gene expression in the hippocampus. DNA methylation is a common epigenetic modifier of gene expression. In this study, we investigated whether DNA methylation is altered in MS hippocampus following demyelination. Our results show that mRNA levels of DNA methyltransferase were increased in demyelinated MS hippocampus, while de-methylation enzymes were decreased. Comparative methylation profiling identify hypo-methylation within upstream sequences of 6 genes and hyper-methylation of 10 genes in demyelinated MS hippocampus. Genes identified in the current study were also validated in an independent microarray dataset generated from MS hippocampus. Independent validation using RT-PCR revealed that DNA methylation inversely correlated with mRNA levels of the candidate genes. Queries across cell-specific databases revealed that a majority of the candidate genes are expressed by astrocytes and neurons in mouse and human CNS. Taken together, our results expands the list of genes previously identified in MS hippocampus and establish DNA methylation as a mechanism of altered gene expression in MS hippocampus.	The predominant clinical disease course of multiple sclerosis starts with reversible episodes of neurological disability, which transforms into progressive neurological decline. This review provides insight into the pathological differences during relapsing and progressive phases of multiple sclerosis. The clinical course of multiple sclerosis is variable, and the disease can be classified into relapsing and progressive phases. Pathological studies have been successful in distinguishing between these two forms of the disease and correlate with the clinical findings in terms of cellular responses, the inflammatory environment, and the location of lesions. Available therapies for multiple sclerosis patients, while effective during the relapsing phase, have little benefit for progressive multiple sclerosis patients. Development of therapies to benefit progressive multiple sclerosis patients will require a better understanding of the pathogenesis of progressive multiple sclerosis. This review discusses and compares the pathological findings in relapsing and progressive multiple sclerosis patients.	Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory demyelinating disease of the central nervous system and the leading cause of non-traumatic neurologic disability in young adults in the United States and Europe. The disease course is variable and starts with reversible episodes of neurologic disability which transforms into continuous and irreversible neurologic decline. It is well established that loss of axons and neurons is the major cause of the progressive neurologic decline that most MS patients endure. Current hypotheses support primary inflammatory demyelination as the underlying cause of axonal loss during earlier stages in MS. The transition to progressive disease course is thought to occur when a threshold of neuronal and axonal loss is reached and the compensatory capacity of the central nervous system is surpassed. Available immunomodulatory therapies are of little benefit to MS after entering this irreversible phase of the disease. Elucidation of mechanisms that are responsible for axonal loss is therefore essential for the development of therapies directed to stop neurologic decline in MS patients. The current chapter reviews existing data on mechanisms of axonal pathology in MS. 	Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory demyelinating disease of the central nervous system with an unknown etiology. The clinical disease course is variable, with the majority of patients experiencing reversible episodes of neurological disability in the third or fourth decade of life, eventually followed by a state of irreversible progression. Continuous axonal and neuronal loss is thought to be the major cause of this progression. Over the last decade, extensive research has targeted the gray matter and its role in MS pathogenesis. While pathological and imaging studies have begun to reveal important clues about the role of cortical pathology, gene expression studies in MS cortex are still emerging. Microarray-based comparative gene expression profiling provides a snapshot of genes underlying a particular condition and has been performed using brain tissues from patients with progressive MS. In this review, we summarize existing data from gene expression changes in cortical tissues from MS brains and how they may provide clues to the pathogenesis. 	Hippocampal demyelination, a common feature of postmortem multiple sclerosis (MS) brains, reduces neuronal gene expression and is a likely contributor to the memory impairment that is found in &gt;40% of individuals with MS. How demyelination alters neuronal gene expression is unknown. To explore whether loss of hippocampal myelin alters expression of neuronal microRNAs (miRNAs), we compared miRNA profiles from myelinated and demyelinated hippocampi from postmortem MS brains and performed validation studies. A network-based interaction analysis depicts a correlation between increased neuronal miRNAs and decreased neuronal genes identified in our previous study. The neuronal miRNA miR-124 was increased in demyelinated MS hippocampi and targets mRNAs encoding 26 neuronal proteins that were decreased in demyelinated hippocampus, including the ionotrophic glutamate receptors AMPA2 and AMPA3. Hippocampal demyelination in mice also increased miR-124, reduced expression of AMPA receptors, and decreased memory performance in water maze tests. Remyelination of the mouse hippocampus reversed these changes. We establish here that myelin alters neuronal gene expression and function by modulating the levels of the neuronal miRNA miR-124. Inhibition of miR-124 in hippocampal neurons may provide a therapeutic approach to improve memory performance in MS patients.	Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is an inflammatory demyelinating disease of the human central nervous system. Although the clinical impact of gray matter pathology in MS brains is unknown, 30 to 40% of MS patients demonstrate memory impairment. The molecular basis of this memory dysfunction has not yet been investigated in MS patients. To investigate possible mechanisms of memory impairment in MS patients, we compared morphological and molecular changes in myelinated and demyelinated hippocampi from postmortem MS brains. Demyelinated hippocampi had minimal neuronal loss but significant decreases in synaptic density. Neuronal proteins essential for axonal transport, synaptic plasticity, glutamate neurotransmission, glutamate homeostasis, and memory/learning were significantly decreased in demyelinated hippocampi, but not in demyelinated motor cortices from MS brains. Collectively, these data support hippocampal demyelination as a cause of synaptic alterations in MS patients and establish that the neuronal genes regulated by myelination reflect specific functions of neuronal subpopulations.	Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory demyelinating disease of the central nervous system and the leading cause of non-traumatic neurological disability in young adults in the United States and Europe. The clinical disease course is variable and starts with reversible episodes of neurological disability in the third or fourth decade of life. Microarray-based comparative gene profiling provides a snapshot of genes underlying a particular condition. Several large scale microarray studies have been conducted using brain tissue from MS patients. In this review, we summarize existing data from different gene expression profiling studies and how they relate to understand the pathogenesis of MS.	Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory demyelinating disease of the central nervous system. Due to its high prevalence, MS is the leading cause of non-traumatic neurological disability in young adults in the United States and Europe. The clinical disease course is variable and starts with reversible episodes of neurological disability in the third or fourth decade of life. This transforms into a disease of continuous and irreversible neurological decline by the sixth or seventh decade. Available therapies for MS patients have little benefit for patients who enter this irreversible phase of the disease. It is well established that irreversible loss of axons and neurons are the major cause of the irreversible and progressive neurological decline that most MS patients endure. This review discusses the etiology, mechanisms and progress made in determining the cause of axonal and neuronal loss in MS.
Dweik, Raed	Inflammation and Immunity	28473668	28090286	27187737	27831543	27922752	28514116	28604281	26856665	26401258	26022959	Many uremic solutes retained in chronic kidney disease are volatile, and can be detected by breath testing. We compared the exhaled breath of subjects with end stage renal disease (ESRD) to healthy volunteers to identify volatile compounds that can serve as a potential breathprint for renal failure. We analyzed the exhaled breath of 86 ESRD subjects and 25 healthy volunteers using selected-ion flow-tube mass spectrometry (SIFT-MS). Using a random forests classification model, we identified three known volatiles (2-propanol, ammonia, acetaldehyde) and two unknown volatiles ([Formula: see text] NO<sup>+</sup>76) that were highly significant for discriminating individuals with renal failure from individuals without renal failure (C statistic &gt; 0.99). This study provides preliminary support for the use of exhaled breath as a potential noninvasive screening tool in renal failure.	Among pulmonary vascular diseases, pulmonary hypertension (PH) is the best studied and has been the focus of our work. The current classification of PH is based on a relatively simple combination of patient characteristics and hemodynamics. This leads to inherent limitations, including the inability to customize treatment and the lack of clarity from a more granular identification based on individual patient phenotypes. Accurate phenotyping of PH can be used in the clinic to select therapies and determine prognosis and in research to increase the homogeneity of study cohorts. Rapid advances in the mechanistic understanding of the disease, improved imaging methods, and innovative biomarkers now provide an opportunity to define novel PH phenotypes. We have recently shown that altered metabolism may affect nitric oxide levels and protein glycosylation, the peripheral circulation (which may provide insights into the response to therapy), and exhaled-breath analysis (which may be useful in disease evaluation). This review is based on a talk presented during the 2015 Grover Conference and highlights the relevant literature describing novel methods to phenotype pulmonary arterial hypertension patients by using approaches that involve the pulmonary and systemic (peripheral) vasculature. In particular, abnormalities in metabolism, the pulmonary and peripheral circulation, and exhaled breath in PH may help identify phenotypes that can be the basis for a precision-medicine approach to PH management. These approaches may also have a broader scope and may contribute to a better understanding of other diseases, such as asthma, diabetes, and cancer.	Altered bone morphogenic protein (BMP) signaling, independent of BMPR2 mutations, can result in idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension (IPAH). Glucose dysregulation can regulate multiple processes in IPAH. However, the role of glucose in BMP antagonist expression in IPAH has not been characterized. We hypothesized that glucose uptake regulates BMP signaling through stimulation of BMP antagonist expression in IPAH. Using human plasma, lung tissue, and primary pulmonary arterial smooth muscle cells (PASMCs), we examined the protein expression of BMP2, BMP-regulated Smads, and Smurf-1 in patients with IPAH and control subjects. Gremlin-1 levels were elevated in patients with IPAH compared with control subjects, whereas expression of BMP2 was not different. We demonstrate increased Smad polyubiquitination in IPAH lung tissue and PASMCs that was further enhanced with proteasomal inhibition. Examination of the Smad ubiquitin-ligase, Smurf-1, showed increased protein expression in IPAH lung tissue and localization in the smooth muscle of the pulmonary artery. Glucose dose dependently increased Smurf-1 protein expression in control PASMCs, whereas Smurf-1 in IPAH PASMCs was increased and sustained. Conversely, phospho-Smad1/5/8 levels were reduced in IPAH compared with control PASMCs at physiological glucose concentrations. Interestingly, high glucose concentrations decreased phosphorylation of Smad1/5/8 in control PASMCs. Blocking glucose uptake had opposing effects in IPAH PASMCs, and inhibition of Smurf-1 activity resulted in partial rescue of Smad1/5/8 activation and cell migration rates. Collectively, these data suggest that BMP signaling can be regulated through BMPR2 mutation-independent mechanisms. Gremlin-1 (synonym: induced-in-high-glucose-2 protein) and Smurf-1 may function to inhibit BMP signaling as a consequence of the glucose dysregulation described in IPAH.	The accuracy of available noninvasive biomarkers for diagnosis, stratification, and prediction of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) courses is limited. We analyzed volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in the breath of IBD patients and controls for diagnosis and differentiation of IBD as well as their link with disease location, activity, and phenotype. A prospective study of diagnostic testing was conducted, recruiting Crohn's disease (CD), ulcerative colitis (UC), other inflammatory gastrointestinal diseases (OGDs), and healthy controls (HCs), as well as subjects with ileal pouch anal anastomosis (IPAA). The breath VOC profile was analyzed using selective ion flow tube-mass spectrometry. One hundred and twenty-four subjects (n=24 CD, n=11 UC, n=6 OGD, n=53 HC, n=30 IPAA) were included. The breath metabolome was significantly different in patients with IBD, CD, or UC compared with OGD and HC (7 out of 22 VOCs), but not between CD and UC. No link between the level of VOCs with complications, disease location, and clinical or radiologic disease activity, as well as lab parameters or type of medication was found. Breath VOCs were markedly different in patients with IPAA compared with any other group (17 out of 22 VOCs) and the presence of pouch inflammation did not alter the VOC levels. A specific breath metabolome is associated with IBD and markedly changes in patients with IPAA. Analysis of a broader spectrum of VOCs can potentially aid in the development of breath prints to diagnose or differentiate inflammatory bowel disorders.	Insulin resistance has emerged as a potential mechanism related to the pathogenesis of idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension (IPAH). However, direct measurements of insulin and glucose metabolism have not been performed in patients with IPAH to date. To perform comprehensive metabolic phenotyping of humans with IPAH. We assessed plasma insulin and glucose, using an oral glucose tolerance test and estimated insulin resistance, and β-cell function in 14 patients with IPAH and 14 control subjects matched for age, sex, blood pressure, and body mass index. Body composition (dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry), inflammation (CXC chemokine ligand 10, endothelin-1), physical fitness (6-min walk test), and energy expenditure (indirect calorimetry) were also assessed. Patients with IPAH had a higher rate of impaired glucose tolerance (57 vs. 14%; P &lt; 0.05) and reduced glucose-stimulated insulin secretion compared with matched control subjects (IPAH: 1.31 ± 0.76 μU/ml⋅mg/dl vs. control subjects: 2.21 ± 1.27 μU/ml⋅mg/dl; P &lt; 0.05). Pancreatic β-cell function was associated with circulating endothelin-1 (r = -0.71, P &lt; 0.01) and CXC chemokine ligand 10 (r = -0.56, P &lt; 0.05). Resting energy expenditure was elevated in IPAH (IPAH: 32 ± 3.4 vs. control subjects: 28.8 ± 2.9 kcal/d/kg fat-free mass; P &lt; 0.05) and correlated with the plasma glucose response (r = 0.51, P &lt; 0.01). Greater insulin resistance was associated with reduced 6-minute walk distance (r = 0.55, P &lt; 0.05). Independent of age, sex, blood pressure, and body mass index, patients with IPAH have glucose intolerance, decreased insulin secretion in response to glucose, and elevated resting energy expenditure. These abnormalities are associated with circulating markers of inflammation and vascular dysfunction.	A dilated pulmonary artery (PA) is a common finding in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). Little is known on the variations in PA size over time and whether these changes track with disease severity and/or predict long-term survival. We included patients with PAH who had at least two computed tomography (CT) scans of the chest done on different visits. Both scans matched the use of i.v. contrast. Pairs of CT scans were compared in 113 PAH patients. During a median (interquartile range (IQR)) time difference between scans of 8 (IQR: 3.5-20.0) months, we noted an increase in main PA diameter of 0.5 ± 1.8 mm (mean ± SD) (P = 0.008). When CT scans were performed &gt;12 months apart (n = 47), the main PA diameter increased or decreased by &gt;1 mm in 40% and 13% of the patients, respectively. An increase in main PA diameter was associated with lower PA compliance, higher right ventricular (RV) systolic pressure, worse RV function and a decline in 6-min walk distance. During a median (IQR) follow-up of 33 (IQR: 4.5-47) months, 53 (46.9%) patients died. The change in PA diameter was a significant predictor of mortality (hazard ratio (HR) per mm increase: 1.33 (95% CI: 1.11-1.61), P = 0.002) when adjusted for difference in time and slice thickness between CT scans, age, gender, PAH aetiology and pulmonary vascular resistance. In PAH patients, an increase in CT-derived main PA diameter over time is associated with progression in pulmonary pressures, RV dysfunction, a decline in functional capacity and higher mortality.	Leptin (a neuroendocrine peptide that enhances metabolism and acts on the hypothalamus to suppress appetite) and adiponectin (a protein that has insulin-sensitizing, anti-inflammatory, and antiproliferative properties) are involved in the pathobiology of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). We hypothesized that plasma leptin and adiponectin as well as the leptin/adiponectin ratio are abnormal in PAH patients and their levels track with disease severity and functional changes during follow-up. We tested this hypothesis in a cohort of patients included in the 16-week, international, multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled FREEDOM-C2 study. Blood was collected at baseline and week 16 in 178 out of 310 randomized patients with PAH. Baseline plasma leptin and adiponectin concentrations were 25 ± 31 ng/mL and 7.8 ± 6.1 ug/mL, respectively. Leptin, adiponectin, and leptin/adiponectin (mean ± SD) changes at 16 week were of small magnitude. Leptin at baseline was significantly associated with older age, higher BMI, higher Borg dyspnea index, and lower NT-pro BNP. Women had higher levels of leptin than men (30.5 ± 33.2 versus 7.2 ± 6.4 ng/mL), even when adjusting for background therapy and etiology (linear regression: β = 21.8, P &lt; 0.001). Adiponectin was negatively associated with BMI and positively associated with NT-pro BNP. Changes in leptin, adiponectin, and leptin/adiponectin ratio adjusted for weight at 16 weeks did not predict functional class, distance walk in 6 min or survival at one, two, three, or four years. Plasma leptin and adiponectin at baseline and their change at 16-week do not appear to significantly impact prognosis in PAH.	Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a progressive, fatal disease. Current prognostic models are not ideal, and identifying more accurate prognostic variables is needed. The objective of this study was to evaluate the relative prognostic value of the right atrial pressure/pulmonary artery wedge pressure (RAP/PAWP) ratio in PAH patients. We hypothesized that the RAP/PAWP ratio is more predictive of survival than any of the other measured or calculated hemodynamic variables. We performed a secondary analysis of a PAH cohort (Cohort 1) and validated our results in a separate cohort (Cohort 2). Cohort 1 included primarily patients enrolled in prospective, short-term, randomized clinical trials and subsequently followed long term. Cohort 2 included patients prospectively enrolled in a PAH registry at a tertiary PAH referral center. Cohort 1 (n = 847) and Cohort 2 (n = 697) had a mean age of 47 and 54 years, respectively. Most were female (78% and 73%, respectively), Caucasian (83% and 82%), with advanced functional class disease status (New York Heart Association Functional Class III/IV 85% and 68%) and with significantly elevated hemodynamics (mean RAP/PAWP ratio: 1.2 and 1.0; pulmonary vascular resistance: 13.5 and 9.4 Wood units). RAP/PAWP ratio indicated a 1-year hazard ratio of 1.44 (p = 0.0001) and 1.35, respectively (p &lt; 0.0001), and was the most consistently predictive hemodynamic variable across the 2 cohorts. These results remain valid even when adjusted for other covariables in multivariable regression models. The RAP/PAWP ratio is a more specific predictor of survival than any other hemodynamic variable, and we recommend that it be used in clinical prognostication and PAH predictive models.	Reduced heart rate recovery (HRR) after exercise is associated with increased mortality in cardiac and pulmonary diseases. We sought to evaluate the association between HRR after the 6-minute walk test (6MWT) and outcomes in patients with connective tissue disease-associated pulmonary hypertension (CTD-PH). Data were obtained by review of the medical records. HRR was defined as the difference in heart rate at the end of the 6MWT and after 1 minute (HRR1), 2 minutes (HRR2), and 3 minutes (HRR3) of rest. All patients with pulmonary hypertension and a diagnosis of systemic sclerosis, systemic lupus erythematosus, or mixed connective tissue disease who underwent the 6MWT between August 1, 2009, and October 30, 2011, were included (n = 66). By Kaplan-Meier analysis, HRR1, HRR2, and HRR3 at different cutoff points were all good predictors, with HRR1 of &lt;16 being the best predictor of time to clinical worsening (log-rank P &lt; 0.0001), hospitalization (log-rank P = 0.0001), and survival (log-rank P &lt; 0.003). By proportional hazards regression, patients with HRR1 of &lt;16 were at increased risk of clinical worsening (hazard ratio [HR]: 6.4 [95% confidence interval (CI): 2.6-19.2]; P &lt; 0.0001], hospitalization (HR: 6.6 [95% CI: 2.4-23]; P &lt; 0.0001), and death (HR: 4.5 [95% CI: 1.6-15.7]; P = 0.003). Patients in the highest tercile (HRR1 of ≥19) were unlikely to have a clinical worsening event (HR: 0.1 [95% CI: 0.04-0.5]; P = 0.001], to be hospitalized (HR: 0.1 [95% CI: 0.02-0.5]; P = 0.001), or to die (HR: 0.3 [95% CI: 0.07-0.9]; P = 0.04]. In conclusion, in patients with CTD-PH, abnormal HRR1 (defined as HRR1 of &lt;16) after the 6MWT is a strong predictor of clinical worsening, time to clinical worsening, survival, and hospitalization. 	The utility and safety of β-blockers in pulmonary hypertension is controversial. Anecdotal reports suggest that β-blockers may be harmful in these patients. The aim of our study was to evaluate outcomes of β-blocker use in pulmonary hypertension.We reviewed patients from our pulmonary hypertension registry between 2000 and 2011. Patients who continued to use β-blockers were compared to those who never used β-blockers for all-cause mortality, time to clinical worsening events, defined as death, lung transplantation and hospitalisation due to pulmonary hypertension. We also evaluated the effect of β-blockers on 6-min walking distance and New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional class.133 patients used β-blockers and 375 patients never used β-blockers. Mean±sd age was 57±16 years and the median follow-up period was 78 months. Propensity-matched analysis showed that the adjusted odds ratio (95% CI) for mortality with β-blocker use was 1.13 (0.69-1.82) and for clinical worsening events was 0.96 (0.55-1.68). No significant difference was noted in probability of survival and time to clinical worsening events. Patients on β-blockers walked a shorter distance on follow-up 6 min walk test; follow-up NYHA class was similar between groups.Pulmonary hypertension patients receiving β-blockers had a similar survival and time to clinical worsening events compared to patients not receiving them. Functional outcomes were similar, although β-blocker use was associated with a tendency towards shorter walking distance. 
Eng, Charis	Genomic Medicine Institute	31006514	30993253	30993251	30937181	30928438	30774768	30664625	30614812	30311380	30245854	Individuals with germline PTEN tumor-suppressor variants have PTEN hamartoma tumor syndrome (PHTS). Clinically, PHTS has variable presentations; there are distinct subsets of PHTS-affected individuals, such as those diagnosed with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) or cancer. It remains unclear why mutations in one gene can lead to such seemingly disparate phenotypes. Therefore, we sought to determine whether it is possible to predict a given PHTS-affected individual's a priori risk of ASD, cancer, or the co-occurrence of both phenotypes. By integrating network proximity analysis performed on the human interactome, molecular simulations, and residue-interaction networks, we demonstrate the role of conformational dynamics in the structural communication and long-range allosteric regulation of germline PTEN variants associated with ASD or cancer. We show that the PTEN interactome shares significant overlap with the ASD and cancer interactomes, providing network-based evidence that PTEN is a crucial player in the biology of both disorders. Importantly, this finding suggests that a germline PTEN variant might perturb the ASD or cancer networks differently, thus favoring one disease outcome at any one time. Furthermore, protein-dynamic structural-network analysis reveals small-world structural communication mediated by highly conserved functional residues and potential allosteric regulation of PTEN. We identified a salient structural-communication pathway that extends across the inter-domain interface for cancer-only mutations. In contrast, the structural-communication pathway is predominantly restricted to the phosphatase domain for ASD-only mutations. Our integrative approach supports the prediction and potential modulation of the relevant conformational states that influence structural communication and long-range perturbations associated with mutational effects that lead to PTEN-ASD or PTEN-cancer phenotypes.	We sought to characterize microbiomes of thoracic aortas from patients with non-infectious aortitis due to giant cell arteritis (GCA) and clinically isolated aortitis (CIA) and to compare them to non-inflammatory aorta aneurysm controls. We also compared microbiomes from concurrently processed and separately reported temporal arteries (TA) and aortas. From 220 prospectively enrolled patients undergoing surgery for thoracic aorta aneurysm, 49 were selected. Inflammatory and non-inflammatory cases were selected based on ability to match for age (+/-10 years), gender, and race. Biopsies were collected under aseptic conditions and snap-frozen. Taxonomic classification of bacterial sequences was performed to the genus level and relative abundances were calculated. Microbiome differential abundances were analyzed by principal coordinates analysis. Forty-nine patients with thoracic aortic aneurysms (12 CIA, 14 GCA, 23 non-inflammatory aneurysms) were enrolled. Alpha (P=0.018) and beta (P=0.024) diversity differed between specimens from aortitis cases and controls. There were no significant differences between CIA and GCA (P&gt;0.7). The largest differential abundances between non-infectious aortitis and non-inflammatory control samples included Enterobacteriaceae, Phascolarctobacterium, Acinetobactor, Klebsiella, and Prevotella. Functional metagenomic predictions with PICRUSt revealed enrichment of oxidative phosphorylation and porphyrin metabolism pathways and downregulation of transcription factor pathways in aortitis compared to controls. Microbiomes of aortic samples differed significantly from temporal artery samples from a companion study, in both control and GCA groups (P=0.0002). Thoracic aorta aneurysms, far from being sterile, contain unique microbiomes that differ from those found in temporal arteries. The aorta microbiomes are most similar between aneurysms that were associated with inflammation, GCA, and CIA, but differed from those associated with non-inflammatory etiologies. These findings are promising in that they indicate that microbes may play a role in the pathogenesis of aortitis-associated aneurysms or non-inflammatory aneurysms by promoting or protecting against inflammation. However, we cannot rule out that these changes are related to alterations in tissue substrate that favor secondary changes in microbial communities.	A role for microorganisms in giant cell arteritis (GCA) has long been suspected. We describe the microbiomes of temporal arteries from patients with GCA and controls. Temporal artery biopsies from patients suspected to have GCA were collected under aseptic conditions and snap-frozen. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and long-read 16S rRNA-gene sequencing was used to examine microbiomes of temporal arteries. Taxonomic classification of bacterial sequences was performed to the genus level and relative abundances were calculated. Microbiome differential abundances were analyzed by principal coordinate analysis (PCoA) with comparative Unifrac distances and predicted functional profiling using PICRUSt. Forty-seven patients, including 9 with biopsy-positive GCA, 15 with biopsy-negative GCA and 23 controls without GCA, were enrolled. FISH for bacterial DNA revealed signal in the arterial media. Beta, but not alpha, diversity differed between GCA and control temporal arteries (P = 0.042). Importantly, there were no significant differences between biopsy-positive and biopsy-negative GCA (P &gt; 0.99). The largest differential abundances seen between GCA and non-GCA temporal arteries included Proteobacteria (P), Bifidobacterium (g), Parasutterella (g), and Granulicatella (g) [Log 2-fold change ≥ 4]. Temporal arteries are not sterile, but rather are inhabited by a community of bacteria. We have demonstrated that there are microbiomic differences between GCA and non-GCA temporal arteries, but not between biopsy-positive and biopsy-negative GCA.	NA	Immune checkpoint-blocking antibodies are actively used to treat multiple cancer types; however, the underlying resistance mechanism remains unclear. In a recent study, Zhao et al. (Nat. Med. 2019;25:462-469) found that somatic PTEN mutations were associated with resistance to immune checkpoint inhibitors by altering immunosuppressive environments in patients with glioblastomas.	NA	There is a strong genetic association between germline PTEN mutation and autism spectrum disorder (ASD), making Pten-mutant models exemplary for the study of ASD pathophysiology. We developed the Pten<sup>m3m4</sup> mouse, where Pten is largely restricted from the nucleus, which recapitulates patient-like, autism-related phenotypes: behavioral changes, macrocephaly, and white matter abnormalities. This study aimed to investigate the contribution of oligodendrocyte (OL) lineage differentiation and functional changes in myelination to the white matter phenotype. OL lineage differentiation and myelination in Pten<sup>m3m4</sup> mice was studied using immunohistochemical and electron microscopic analyses. We also used primary oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) to determine the effect of the Pten<sup>m3m4</sup> mutation on OPC proliferation, migration and maturation. Finally, we assessed the myelinating competency of mutant OLs via co-culture with wildtype dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons. The in vivo analyses of Pten<sup>m3m4/m3m4</sup> murine brains showed deficits in proteolipid protein (Plp) trafficking in myelinating OLs. Despite the increased expression of myelin proteins in the brain, myelin deposition was observed to be abnormal, often occurring adjacent to, rather than around axons. Mutant primary OPCs showed enhanced proliferation and migration. Furthermore, mutant OPCs matured precociously, exhibiting aberrant myelination in vitro. Mutant OPCs, when co-cultured with wildtype DRG neurons, showed an inability to properly ensheath axons. Our findings provide evidence that the Pten<sup>m3m4</sup> mutation disrupts the differentiation and myelination programs of developing OLs. OL dysfunction in the Pten<sup>m3m4</sup> model explains the leukodystrophy phenotype, a feature commonly associated with autism, and highlights the growing importance of glial dysfunction in autism pathogenesis.	The tumor suppressor phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) classically counteracts the PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling cascade. Germline pathogenic PTEN mutations cause PTEN hamartoma tumor syndrome (PHTS), featuring various benign and malignant tumors, as well as neurodevelopmental disorders such as autism spectrum disorder. Germline and somatic mosaic mutations in genes encoding components of the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway downstream of PTEN predispose to syndromes with partially overlapping clinical features, termed the &quot;PTEN-opathies.&quot; Experimental models of PTEN pathway disruption uncover the molecular and cellular processes influencing clinical phenotypic manifestations. Such insights not only teach us about biological mechanisms in states of health and disease, but also enable more accurate gene-informed cancer risk assessment, medical management, and targeted therapeutics. Hence, the PTEN-opathies serve as a prototype for bedside to bench, and back to the bedside, practice of evidence-based precision medicine.	The ClinGen PTEN Expert Panel was organized by the ClinGen Hereditary Cancer Clinical Domain Working Group to assemble clinicians, researchers, and molecular diagnosticians with PTEN expertise to develop specifications to the 2015 ACMG/AMP Sequence Variant Interpretation Guidelines for PTEN variant interpretation. We describe finalized PTEN-specific variant classification criteria and outcomes from pilot testing of 42 variants with benign/likely benign (BEN/LBEN), pathogenic/likely pathogenic (PATH/LPATH), uncertain significance (VUS), and conflicting (CONF) ClinVar assertions. Utilizing these rules, classifications concordant with ClinVar assertions were achieved for 14/15 (93.3%) BEN/LBEN and 16/16 (100%) PATH/LPATH ClinVar consensus variants for an overall concordance of 96.8% (30/31). The variant where agreement was not reached was a synonymous variant near a splice donor with noncanonical sequence for which in silico models cannot predict the native site. Applying these rules to six VUS and five CONF variants, adding shared internal laboratory data enabled one VUS to be classified as LBEN and two CONF variants to be as classified as PATH and LPATH. This study highlights the benefit of gene-specific criteria and the value of sharing internal laboratory data for variant interpretation. Our PTEN-specific criteria and expertly reviewed assertions should prove helpful for laboratories and others curating PTEN variants.	KLLN is a target of p53 involved in S-phase cell cycle regulation deemed necessary and sufficient for p53-mediated apoptosis. Germline promoter hypermethylation of KLLN is associated with a cancer-predisposition syndrome, Cowden syndrome. KLLN's DNA-binding ability is associated with transcription regulation and maintenance of genomic stability. Here, we report on KLLN's role in DNA damage response (DDR) mediated through apoptosis in breast cells with and without a cancer phenotype. KLLN expression was upregulated after doxorubicin-induced DNA damage and this upregulation can be abrogated using RNAi-mediated gene silencing. Silencing KLLN after doxorubicin treatment effected DDR shown by decreased γ-H2AX foci and expression, and apoptosis assessed by decreased frequency of apoptotic nuclei and decreased expression of definitive markers of apoptosis. Contrary to expectations, there was no change in cell cycle regulation after KLLN silencing. These results were observed in breast cells with wildtype and mutant p53. At early timepoints after doxorubicin treatment, knocking down KLLN resulted in decreased Ser15-phosphorylation of p53 but not Thr68-phosphorylation of CHK2 or the phosphorylation of upstream regulators such as ATM and ATR. Interestingly, a second pathway for p53 activation was also affected by knockdown of KLLN. After doxorubicin treatment, Thr454-phosphorylation of DBC1, required to inhibit deacetylation of p53 by SIRT1, was decreased and therefore acetylation of p53 was also decreased with KLLN knockdown. Therefore, our observations suggest that KLLN's role in DNA damage-induced apoptosis is likely independent of p53 and is associated with a two-pronged regulation of p53 activation.
Erdemir, Ahmet	Biomedical Engineering	30927364	30712373	30514629	30251995	29247253	28836010	26444849	26381404	25844153	24895518	The goal of this study was to develop a pragmatic approach to build patient-specific models of the peripheral artery that are aware of plaque inhomogeneity. Patient-specific models using element-specific material definition (to understand the role of plaque composition) and homogeneous material definition (to understand the role of artery diameter and thickness) were automatically built from intravascular ultrasound images of three artery segments classified with low, average, and high calcification. The element-specific material models had average surface stiffness values of 0.0735, 0.0826, and 0.0973 MPa/mm, whereas the homogeneous material models had average surface stiffness values of 0.1392, 0.1276, and 0.1922 MPa/mm for low, average, and high calcification, respectively. Localization of peak lumen stiffness and differences in patient-specific average surface stiffness for homogeneous and element-specific models suggest the role of plaque composition on surface stiffness in addition to local arterial diameter and thickness.	Ultrasound is a popular and affordable imaging modality, but the nature of freehand ultrasound operation leads to unknown applied loads at non-quantifiable angles. The purpose of this paper was to demonstrate an instrumentation strategy for an ultrasound system to measure probe forces and orientation during freehand imaging to characterize the interaction between the probe and soft-tissue as well as enhance repeatability. The instrumentation included a 6-axis load cell, an inertial measurement unit, and an optional sensor for camera-based motion capture. A known method for compensation of the ultrasound probe weight was implemented, and a novel method for temporal synchronization was developed. While load and optical sensing was previously achieved, this paper presents a strategy for potential instrumentation on a variety of ultrasound machines. A key feature was the temporal synchronization, utilizing the electrocardiogram (EKG) feature built-in to the ultrasound. The system was used to perform anatomical imaging of tissue layers of musculoskeletal extremities and imaging during indentation on an in vivo subject and an in vitro specimen. The outcomes of the instrumentation strategy were demonstrated during minimal force and indentation imaging. In short, the system presented robust instrumentation of an existing ultrasound system to fully characterize the probe force, orientation, and optionally its movement during imaging while efficiently synchronizing all data. Researchers may use the instrumentation strategy on any EKG capable ultrasound systems if mechanical characterization of soft tissue or minimization of forces and deformations of tissue during anatomical imaging are desired.	Musculoskeletal extremities exhibit a multi-layer tissue structure that is composed of skin, fat, and muscle. Body composition and anthropometric measurements have been used to assess health status and build anatomically accurate biomechanical models of the limbs. However, comprehensive datasets inclusive of regional tissue anatomy and response under mechanical manipulation are missing. The goal of this study was to acquire and disseminate anatomical and mechanical data collected on extremities of the general population. An ultrasound system, instrumented with a load transducer, was used for in vivo characterization of skin, fat, and muscle thicknesses in the extremities of 100 subjects at unloaded (minimal force) and loaded (through indentation) states. For each subject, the unloaded and loaded state provided anatomic tissue layer measures and tissue indentation response for 48 and 8 regions, respectively. A publicly available web-based system has been used for data management and dissemination. This comprehensive database will provide the foundation for comparative studies in regional musculoskeletal composition and improve visual and haptic realism for computational models of the limbs.	The role of computational modeling for biomechanics research and related clinical care will be increasingly prominent. The biomechanics community has been developing computational models routinely for exploration of the mechanics and mechanobiology of diverse biological structures. As a result, a large array of models, data, and discipline-specific simulation software has emerged to support endeavors in computational biomechanics. Sharing computational models and related data and simulation software has first become a utilitarian interest, and now, it is a necessity. Exchange of models, in support of knowledge exchange provided by scholarly publishing, has important implications. Specifically, model sharing can facilitate assessment of reproducibility in computational biomechanics and can provide an opportunity for repurposing and reuse, and a venue for medical training. The community's desire to investigate biological and biomechanical phenomena crossing multiple systems, scales, and physical domains, also motivates sharing of modeling resources as blending of models developed by domain experts will be a required step for comprehensive simulation studies as well as the enhancement of their rigor and reproducibility. The goal of this paper is to understand current perspectives in the biomechanics community for the sharing of computational models and related resources. Opinions on opportunities, challenges, and pathways to model sharing, particularly as part of the scholarly publishing workflow, were sought. A group of journal editors and a handful of investigators active in computational biomechanics were approached to collect short opinion pieces as a part of a larger effort of the IEEE EMBS Computational Biology and the Physiome Technical Committee to address model reproducibility through publications. A synthesis of these opinion pieces indicates that the community recognizes the necessity and usefulness of model sharing. There is a strong will to facilitate model sharing, and there are corresponding initiatives by the scientific journals. Outside the publishing enterprise, infrastructure to facilitate model sharing in biomechanics exists, and simulation software developers are interested in accommodating the community's needs for sharing of modeling resources. Encouragement for the use of standardized markups, concerns related to quality assurance, acknowledgement of increased burden, and importance of stewardship of resources are noted. In the short-term, it is advisable that the community builds upon recent strategies and experiments with new pathways for continued demonstration of model sharing, its promotion, and its utility. Nonetheless, the need for a long-term strategy to unify approaches in sharing computational models and related resources is acknowledged. Development of a sustainable platform supported by a culture of open model sharing will likely evolve through continued and inclusive discussions bringing all stakeholders at the table, e.g., by possibly establishing a consortium.	Computational studies of chondrocyte mechanics, and cell mechanics in general, have typically been performed using single cell models embedded in an extracellular matrix construct. The assumption of a single cell microstructural model may not capture intercellular interactions or accurately reflect the macroscale mechanics of cartilage when higher cell concentrations are considered, as may be the case in many instances. Hence, the goal of this study was to compare cell-level response of single and eleven cell biphasic finite element models, where the latter provided an anatomically based cellular distribution representative of the actual number of cells for a commonly used [Formula: see text] edge cubic representative volume in the middle zone of cartilage. Single cell representations incorporated a centered single cell model and eleven location-corrected single cell models, the latter to delineate the role of cell placement in the representative volume element. A stress relaxation test at 10% compressive strain was adopted for all simulations. During transient response, volume- averaged chondrocyte mechanics demonstrated marked differences (up to 60% and typically greater than 10%) for the centered single versus the eleven cell models, yet steady-state loading was similar. Cell location played a marked role, due to inhomogeneity of the displacement and fluid pressure fields at the macroscopic scale. When the single cell representation was corrected for cell location, the transient response was consistent, while steady-state differences on the order of 1-4% were realized, which may be attributed to intercellular mechanical interactions. Anatomical representations of the superficial and deep zones, where cells reside in close proximity, may exhibit greater intercellular interactions, but these have yet to be explored.	Virtual representations of the knee joint can provide clinicians, scientists, and engineers the tools to explore mechanical functions of the knee and its tissue structures in health and disease. Modeling and simulation approaches such as finite element analysis also provide the possibility to understand the influence of surgical procedures and implants on joint stresses and tissue deformations. A large number of knee joint models are described in the biomechanics literature. However, freely accessible, customizable, and easy-to-use models are scarce. Availability of such models can accelerate clinical translation of simulations, where labor-intensive reproduction of model development steps can be avoided. Interested parties can immediately utilize readily available models for scientific discovery and clinical care. Motivated by this gap, this study aims to describe an open source and freely available finite element representation of the tibiofemoral joint, namely Open Knee, which includes the detailed anatomical representation of the joint's major tissue structures and their nonlinear mechanical properties and interactions. Three use cases illustrate customization potential of the model, its predictive capacity, and its scientific and clinical utility: prediction of joint movements during passive flexion, examining the role of meniscectomy on contact mechanics and joint movements, and understanding anterior cruciate ligament mechanics. A summary of scientific and clinically directed studies conducted by other investigators are also provided. The utilization of this open source model by groups other than its developers emphasizes the premise of model sharing as an accelerator of simulation-based medicine. Finally, the imminent need to develop next-generation knee models is noted. These are anticipated to incorporate individualized anatomy and tissue properties supported by specimen-specific joint mechanics data for evaluation, all acquired in vitro from varying age groups and pathological states. 	Understanding of tibiofemoral joint mechanics at multiple spatial scales is essential for developing effective preventive measures and treatments for both pathology and injury management. Currently, there is a distinct lack of specimen-specific biomechanical data at multiple spatial scales, e.g., joint, tissue, and cell scales. Comprehensive multiscale data may improve the understanding of the relationship between biomechanical and anatomical markers across various scales. Furthermore, specimen-specific multiscale data for the tibiofemoral joint may assist development and validation of specimen-specific computational models that may be useful for more thorough analyses of the biomechanical behavior of the joint. This study describes an aggregation of procedures for acquisition of multiscale anatomical and biomechanical data for the tibiofemoral joint. Magnetic resonance imaging was used to acquire anatomical morphology at the joint scale. A robotic testing system was used to quantify joint level biomechanical response under various loading scenarios. Tissue level material properties were obtained from the same specimen for the femoral and tibial articular cartilage, medial and lateral menisci, anterior and posterior cruciate ligaments, and medial and lateral collateral ligaments. Histology data were also obtained for all tissue types to measure specimen-specific cell scale information, e.g., cellular distribution. This study is the first of its kind to establish a comprehensive multiscale data set for a musculoskeletal joint and the presented data collection approach can be used as a general template to guide acquisition of specimen-specific comprehensive multiscale data for musculoskeletal joints. 	Understanding the mechanical environment of articular cartilage and chondrocytes is of the utmost importance in evaluating tissue damage which is often related to failure of the fibre architecture and mechanical injury to the cells. This knowledge also has significant implications for understanding the mechanobiological response in healthy and diseased cartilage and can drive the development of intervention strategies, ranging from the design of tissue-engineered constructs to the establishment of rehabilitation protocols. Spanning multiple spatial scales, a wide range of biomechanical factors dictate this mechanical environment. Computational modelling and simulation provide descriptive and predictive tools to identify multiscale interactions, and can lead towards a greater comprehension of healthy and diseased cartilage function, possibly in an individualized manner. Cartilage and chondrocyte mechanics can be examined in silico, through post-processing or feed-forward approaches. First, joint-tissue level simulations, typically using the finite-element method, solve boundary value problems representing the joint articulation and underlying tissue, which can differentiate the role of compartmental joint loading in cartilage contact mechanics and macroscale cartilage field mechanics. Subsequently, tissue-cell scale simulations, driven by the macroscale cartilage mechanical field information, can predict chondrocyte deformation metrics along with the mechanics of the surrounding pericellular and extracellular matrices. A high-throughput modelling and simulation framework is necessary to develop models representative of regional and population-wide variations in cartilage and chondrocyte anatomy and mechanical properties, and to conduct large-scale analysis accommodating a multitude of loading scenarios. However, realization of such a framework is a daunting task, with technical difficulties hindering the processes of model development, scale coupling, simulation and interpretation of the results. This study aims to summarize various strategies to address the technical challenges of post-processing-based simulations of cartilage and chondrocyte mechanics with the ultimate goal of establishing the foundations of a high-throughput multiscale analysis framework. At the joint-tissue scale, rapid development of regional models of articular contact is possible by automating the process of generating parametric representations of cartilage boundaries and depth-dependent zonal delineation with associated constitutive relationships. At the tissue-cell scale, models descriptive of multicellular and fibrillar architecture of cartilage zones can also be generated in an automated fashion. Through post-processing, scripts can extract biphasic mechanical metrics at a desired point in the cartilage to assign loading and boundary conditions to models at the lower spatial scale of cells. Cell deformation metrics can be extracted from simulation results to provide a simplified description of individual chondrocyte responses. Simulations at the tissue-cell scale can be parallelized owing to the loosely coupled nature of the feed-forward approach. Verification studies illustrated the necessity of a second-order data passing scheme between scales and evaluated the role that the microscale representative volume size plays in appropriately predicting the mechanical response of the chondrocytes. The tools summarized in this study collectively provide a framework for high-throughput exploration of cartilage biomechanics, which includes minimally supervised model generation, and prediction of multiscale biomechanical metrics across a range of spatial scales, from joint regions and cartilage zones, down to that of the chondrocytes. 	NA	NA
Erzurum, Serpil	Inflammation and Immunity	31242023	28814664	28797075	30619887	28018974	27294365	27130529	27027950	26810221	26141573	The β-adrenergic receptor (βAR) exists in an equilibrium of inactive and active conformational states, which shifts in response to different ligands and results in downstream signaling. In addition to cAMP, βAR signals to hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (HIF-1). We hypothesized that a βAR-active conformation (R**) that leads to HIF-1 is separable from the cAMP-activating conformation (R*) and that pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) patients with HIF-biased conformations would not respond to a cAMP agonist. We compared two cAMP agonists, isoproterenol and salbutamol, in vitro. Isoproterenol increased cAMP and HIF-1 activity, while salbutamol increased cAMP and reduced HIF-1. Hypoxia blunted agonist-stimulated cAMP, consistent with receptor equilibrium shifting toward HIF-activating conformations. Similarly, isoproterenol increased HIF-1 and erythropoiesis in mice, while salbutamol decreased erythropoiesis. βAR overexpression in cells increased glycolysis, which was blunted by HIF-1 inhibitors, suggesting increased βAR leads to increased hypoxia-metabolic effects. Because PAH is also characterized by HIF-related glycolytic shift, we dichotomized PAH patients in the Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension Treatment with Carvedilol for Heart Failure trial (NCT01586156) based on right ventricular (RV) glucose uptake to evaluate βAR ligands. Patients with high glucose uptake had more severe disease than those with low uptake. cAMP increased in response to isoproterenol in mononuclear cells from low-uptake patients but not in high-uptake patients' cells. When patients were treated with carvedilol for 1 wk, the low-uptake group decreased RV systolic pressures and pulmonary vascular resistance, but high-uptake patients had no physiologic responses. The findings expand the paradigm of βAR activation and uncover a novel PAH subtype that might benefit from β-blockers.	Right-sided heart failure is the leading cause of death in pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). Similar to left heart failure, sympathetic overactivation and β-adrenoreceptor (βAR) abnormalities are found in PAH. Based on successful therapy of left heart failure with β-blockade, the safety and benefits of the nonselective β-blocker/vasodilator carvedilol were evaluated in PAH. PAH Treatment with Carvedilol for Heart Failure (PAHTCH) is a single-center, double-blind, randomized, controlled trial. Following 1-week run-in, 30 participants were randomized to 1 of 3 arms for 24 weeks: placebo, low-fixed-dose, or dose-escalating carvedilol. Outcomes included clinical measures and mechanistic biomarkers. Decreases in heart rate and blood pressure with carvedilol were well tolerated; heart rate correlated with carvedilol dose. Carvedilol-treated groups had no decrease in exercise capacity measured by 6-minute walk, but had lower heart rates at peak and after exercise, and faster heart rate recovery. Dose-escalating carvedilol was associated with reduction in right ventricular (RV) glycolytic rate and increase in βAR levels. There was no evidence of RV functional deterioration; rather, cardiac output was maintained. Carvedilol is likely safe in PAH over 6 months of therapy and has clinical and mechanistic benefits associated with improved outcomes. The data provide support for longer and larger studies to establish guidelines for use of β-blockers in PAH. ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01586156FUNDING. This project was supported by NIH R01HL115008 and R01HL60917 and in part by the National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences, UL1TR000439.	Arginine metabolism via inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and arginase 2 (ARG2) is higher in asthmatics than in healthy individuals. We hypothesized that a sub-phenotype of asthma might be defined by the magnitude of arginine metabolism categorized on the basis of high and low fraction of exhaled nitric oxide (FENO). To test this hypothesis, asthmatics (n = 52) were compared to healthy controls (n = 51) for levels of FENO, serum arginase activity, and airway epithelial expression of iNOS and ARG2 proteins, in relation to clinical parameters of asthma inflammation and airway reactivity. In parallel, bronchial epithelial cells were evaluated for metabolic effects of iNOS and ARG2 expression in vitro. Asthmatics with high FENO (≥ 35 ppb; 44% of asthmatics) had higher expression of iNOS (P = 0.04) and ARG2 (P = 0.05) in the airway, indicating FENO is a marker of the high arginine metabolic endotype. High FENO asthmatics had the lowest FEV1% (P &lt; 0.001), FEV1/FVC (P = 0.0002) and PC20 (P &lt; 0.001) as compared to low FENO asthmatics or healthy controls. Low FENO asthmatics had near normal iNOS and ARG2 expression (both P &gt; 0.05), and significantly higher PC20 (P &lt; 0.001) as compared to high FENO asthmatics. In vitro studies to evaluate metabolic effects showed that iNOS overexpression and iNOS+ARG2 co-expression in a human bronchial epithelial cell line led to greater reliance on glycolysis with higher rate of pyruvate going to lactate. The high FENO phenotype represents a large portion of the asthma population, and is typified by greater arginine metabolism and more severe and reactive asthma.	Background: The therapeutic benefits of β-blockers are well established in left heart failure. The Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension Treatment with Carvedilol for Heart Failure [PAHTCH] study showed safety and possible benefit of carvedilol in pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) associated right heart failure over 6 months. This study aims at evaluating the short-term cardiovascular effects and early mechanistic biomarkers of carvedilol therapy. Methods: Thirty patients with pulmonary hypertension (PH) received low dose carvedilol (3.125 mg twice daily) for 1 week prior to randomization to placebo, low-dose, or dose-escalating carvedilol therapy. Echocardiography was performed at baseline and 1 week. Exercise capacity was assessed by 6 min walk distance (6MWD). The L-arginine/nitric oxide pathway and other biological markers of endothelial function were measured. Results: All participants tolerated 1 week of carvedilol without adverse effects. After 1 week of carvedilol, 6MWD and heart rate at peak exercise did not vary (both p &gt; 0.1). Heart rate at rest and 1 min post walk dropped significantly (both p &lt; 0.05) with a trend for increase in heart rate recovery (p = 0.08). Right ventricular systolic pressure (RVSP) decreased by an average of 13 mmHg (p = 0.002). Patients who had a decrease in RVSP of more than 10 mm Hg were defined as responders (n = 17), and those with a lesser drop as non-responders (n = 13). Responders had a significant drop in pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) after 1 week of carvedilol (p = 0.004). In addition, responders had a greater decrease in heart rate at rest and 1 min post walk compared to non-responders (both p &lt; 0.05). Responders had higher plasma arginine and global bioavailability of arginine at baseline compared to non-responders (p = 0.03 and p = 0.05, respectively). After 1 week of carvedilol, responders had greater increase in urinary nitrate (p = 0.04). Responders treated with carvedilol had a sustained drop in RVSP and PVR after 6 months of carvedilol with no change in cardiac output. Conclusions: Low-dose carvedilol for 1 week can potentially identify a PH responder phenotype that may benefit from β-blockers that is associated with less endothelial dysfunction. Clinical Trial Registration: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. identifier: NCT01586156.	Life-sustaining responses to low oxygen, or hypoxia, depend on signal transduction by HIFs, but the underlying mechanisms by which cells sense hypoxia are not completely understood. Based on prior studies suggesting a link between the β-adrenergic receptor (β-AR) and hypoxia responses, we hypothesized that the β-AR mediates hypoxia sensing and is necessary for HIF-1α accumulation. Beta blocker treatment of mice suppressed hypoxia induction of renal HIF-1α accumulation, erythropoietin production, and erythropoiesis in vivo. Likewise, beta blocker treatment of primary human endothelial cells in vitro decreased hypoxia-mediated HIF-1α accumulation and binding to target genes and the downstream hypoxia-inducible gene expression. In mechanistic studies, cAMP-activated PKA and/or GPCR kinases (GRK), which both participate in β-AR signal transduction, were investigated. Direct activation of cAMP/PKA pathways did not induce HIF-1α accumulation, and inhibition of PKA did not blunt HIF-1α induction by hypoxia. In contrast, pharmacological inhibition of GRK, or expression of a GRK phosphorylation-deficient β-AR mutant in cells, blocked hypoxia-mediated HIF-1α accumulation. Mass spectrometry-based quantitative analyses revealed a hypoxia-mediated β-AR phosphorylation barcode that was different from the classical agonist phosphorylation barcode. These findings indicate that the β-AR is fundamental to the molecular and physiological responses to hypoxia.	Worldwide, asthma is a leading cause of morbidity, mortality and economic burden, with significant gender and racial disparities. However, little attention has been given to the independent role of age on lifetime asthma severity and hospitalization. We aimed to assess the effect of age, gender, race and ethnicity on indicators of asthma severity including asthma related hospitalization, mortality, hospital cost, and the rate of respiratory failure. We analyzed the 2011 and 2012 Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project- National Inpatient Sample (NIS). We validated and extended those results using the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute-Severe Asthma Research Program (SARP; 2002-2011) database. Severe asthma was prospectively defined using the stringent American Thoracic Society (ATS) definition. Hospitalization for asthma was reported in 372,685 encounters in 2012 and 368,528 in 2011. The yearly aggregate cost exceeded $2 billion. There were distinct bimodal distributions for hospitalization age, with an initial peak at 5 years and a second at 50 years. Likewise, this bimodal age distribution of patients with severe asthma was identified using SARP. Males comprised the majority of individuals in the first peak, but women in the second. Aggregate hospital cost mirrored the bimodal peak distribution. The probability of respiratory failure increased with age until the age of 60, after which it continued to increase in men, but not in women. Severe asthma is primarily a disease of young boys and middle age women. Greater understanding of the biology of lung aging and influence of sex hormones will allow us to plan for targeted interventions during these times in order to reduce the personal and societal burdens of asthma.	The impairment of vasodilator nitric oxide (NO) production is well accepted as a typical marker of endothelial dysfunction in vascular diseases, including in the pathophysiology of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), but the molecular mechanisms accounting for loss of NO production are unknown. We hypothesized that low NO production by pulmonary arterial endothelial cells in PAH is due to inactivation of NO synthase (eNOS) by aberrant phosphorylation of the protein. To test the hypothesis, we evaluated eNOS levels, dimerization, and phosphorylation in the vascular endothelial cells and lungs of patients with PAH compared with controls. In mechanistic studies, eNOS activity in endothelial cells in PAH lungs was found to be inhibited due to phosphorylation at T495. Evidence pointed to greater phosphorylation/activation of protein kinase C (PKC) α and its greater association with eNOS as the source of greater phosphorylation at T495. The presence of greater amounts of pT495-eNOS in plexiform lesions in lungs of patients with PAH confirmed the pathobiological mechanism in vivo. Transfection of the activating mutation of eNOS (T495A/S1177D) restored NO production in PAH cells. Pharmacological blockade of PKC activity by β-blocker also restored NO formation by PAH cells, identifying one mechanism by which β-blockers may benefit PAH and cardiovascular diseases through recovery of endothelial functions.	Research over the past 30 years has identified mechanistic biochemical oxidation pathways that contribute to asthma pathophysiology. Redox imbalance is present in asthma and strongly linked to the pathobiology of airflow obstruction, airway hyperreactivity, and remodeling. High levels of reactive oxygen species, reactive nitrogen species, and oxidatively modified proteins in the lung, blood, and urine provide conclusive evidence for pathologic oxidation in asthma. Concurrent loss of antioxidants, such as superoxide dismutases and catalase, is attributed to redox modifications of the enzymes, and further amplifies the oxidative injury in the airway. The presence of high levels of urine bromotyrosine, an oxidation product of eosinophil peroxidase, identifies activated eosinophils, and shows promise for use as a noninvasive biomarker of poor asthma control. 	Angiogenesis is closely linked to and precedes eosinophilic infiltration in asthma. Eosinophils are recruited into the airway by chemoattractant eotaxins, which are expressed by endothelial cells, smooth muscles cells, epithelial cells, and hematopoietic cells. We hypothesized that bone marrow-derived proangiogenic progenitor cells that contain eotaxins contribute to the initiation of angiogenesis and inflammation in asthma. Whole-lung allergen challenge of atopic asthma patients revealed vascular activation occurs within hours of challenge and before airway inflammation. The eotaxin receptor CCR3 was expressed at high levels on submucosal endothelial cells in patients and a murine model of asthma. Ex vivo exposure of murine endothelial cells to eotaxins induced migration and angiogenesis. In mechanistic studies, wild-type mice transplanted with eotaxin-1/2-deficient bone marrow had markedly less angiogenesis and inflammation in an atopic asthma model, whereas adoptive transfer of proangiogenic progenitor cells from wild-type mice in an atopic asthma model into the eotaxin-1/2-deficient mice led to angiogenesis and airway inflammation. The findings indicate that Th2-promoting hematopoietic progenitor cells are rapidly recruited to the lung upon allergen exposure and release eotaxins that coordinately activate endothelial cells, angiogenesis, and airway inflammation. 	Gender differences in asthma incidence, prevalence and severity have been reported worldwide. After puberty, asthma becomes more prevalent and severe in women, and is highest in women with early menarche or with multiple gestations, suggesting a role for sex hormones in asthma genesis. However, the impact of sex hormones on the pathophysiology of asthma is confounded by and difficult to differentiate from age, obesity, atopy, and other gender associated environmental exposures. There are also gender discrepancies in the perception of asthma symptoms. Understanding gender differences in asthma is important to provide effective education and personalized management plans for asthmatics across the lifecourse. 
Fairchild, Robert	Inflammation and Immunity	30617225	30503624	30372587	29467328	27165816	27083272	26856697	26575854	25731734	25202838	Contact hypersensitivity (CHS) is a CD8 T cell-mediated response to hapten skin sensitization and challenge. Sensitization of wild-type (WT) mice induces hapten-reactive effector CD8 T cells producing IFN-γ and IL-17- and IL-4-producing CD4 T cells that cannot mediate CHS. Although CXCR2-dependent Ly6G<sup>+</sup> (neutrophil) cell recruitment into hapten-challenged skin is required to direct effector CD8 T cell infiltration into the challenge site to elicit CHS, 2,4-dinitrofluorobenezene (DNFB) sensitization of CXCR2<sup>-/-</sup> mice and neutrophil-depleted WT mice induced both hapten-reactive CD4 and CD8 T cells producing IFN-γ and IL-17. CD4 T cell-mediated CHS responses were not generated during DNFB sensitization of neutrophil-depleted WT mice treated with anti-IL-12 mAb or neutrophil-depleted IL-12<sup>-/-</sup> mice. Neutrophil depletion during DNFB sensitization of WT mice markedly increased IL-12-producing hapten-primed dendritic cell numbers in the skin-draining lymph nodes. Sensitization of mice lacking the neutrophil serine protease cathepsin G (CG)-induced hapten-reactive CD4 and CD8 T cells producing IFN-γ and IL-17 with elevated and elongated CHS responses to DNFB challenge. Induction of CHS effector CD4 T cells producing IFN-γ in neutrophil-depleted WT mice was eliminated by s.c. injection of active, but not inactivated, CG during sensitization. Thus, hapten skin sensitization induces neutrophil release of CG that systemically inhibits hapten-presenting dendritic cell production of IL-12 and the development of hapten-reactive CD4 T cells to IFN-γ-producing CHS effector cells.	Antibody mediated rejection (ABMR) is a major barrier to long-term kidney graft survival. Dysregulated donor-specific antibody (DSA) responses are induced in CCR5-deficient mice transplanted with complete major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-mismatched kidney allografts, and natural killer (NK) cells play a critical role in graft injury and rejection. We investigated the consequence of high DSA titers on kidney graft outcomes in the presence or absence of NK cell activation within the graft. Equivalent serum DSA titers were induced in CCR5-deficient B6 recipients of complete MHC mismatched A/J allografts and semi-allogeneic (A/J x B6) F1 kidney grafts, peaking by day 14 post-transplant. A/J allografts were rejected between days 16-28, whereas B6 isografts and semi-allogeneic grafts survived past day 65. On day 7 post-transplant, NK cell infiltration into A/J allografts was composed of distinct populations expressing high and low levels of the surface antigen NK1.1, with NK1.1low cells reflecting the highest level of activation. These NK cell populations increased with time post-transplant. In contrast, NK cell infiltration into semi-allogeneic grafts on day 7 was composed entirely of NK1.1high cells that decreased thereafter. On day 65 post-transplant the semi-allogeneic grafts had severe interstitial fibrosis, glomerulopathy, and arteriopathy, accompanied by expression of pro-fibrogenic genes. These results suggest that NK cells synergize with DSA to cause acute kidney allograft rejection, whereas high DSA titers in the absence of NK cell activation cannot provoke acute ABMR but instead induce the indolent development of interstitial fibrosis and glomerular injury that leads to late graft failure.	Recipient endogenous memory CD8 T cells expressing reactivity to donor class I MHC infiltrate MHC-mismatched cardiac allografts within 24 hours after reperfusion and express effector functions mediating graft injury. The current study tested the efficacy of Very Late Antigen-4 (VLA-4) blockade to inhibit endogenous memory CD8 T cell infiltration into cardiac allografts and attenuate early posttransplant inflammation. Peritransplant anti-VLA-4 mAb given to C57BL6 (H-2<sup>b</sup> ) recipients of AJ (H-2<sup>a</sup> ) heart allografts completely inhibited endogenous memory CD4 and CD8 T cell infiltration with significant decrease in macrophage, but not neutrophil, infiltration into allografts subjected to either minimal or prolonged cold ischemic storage (CIS) prior to transplant, reduced intra-allograft IFN-γ-induced gene expression and prolonged survival of allografts subjected to prolonged CIS in CTLA-4Ig treated recipients. Anti-VLA-4 mAb also inhibited priming of donor-specific T cells producing IFN-γ until at least day 7 posttransplant. Peritransplant anti-VLA plus anti-CD154 mAb treatment similarly prolonged survival of allografts subjected to minimal or increased CIS prior to transplant. Overall, these data indicate that peritransplant anti-VLA-4 mAb inhibits early infiltration memory CD8 T cell infiltration into allografts with a marked reduction in early graft inflammation suggesting an effective strategy to attenuate negative effects of heterologous alloimmunity in recipients of higher risk grafts.	Recipient endogenous memory T cells with donor reactivity pose an important barrier to successful transplantation and costimulatory blockade-induced graft tolerance. Longer ischemic storage times prior to organ transplantation increase early posttransplant inflammation and negatively impact early graft function and long-term graft outcome. Little is known about the mechanisms enhancing endogenous memory T cell activation to mediate tissue injury within the increased inflammatory environment of allografts subjected to prolonged cold ischemic storage (CIS). Endogenous memory CD4+ and CD8+ T cell activation is markedly increased within complete MHC-mismatched cardiac allografts subjected to prolonged versus minimal CIS, and the memory CD8+ T cells directly mediate CTLA-4Ig-resistant allograft rejection. Memory CD8+ T cell activation within allografts subjected to prolonged CIS requires memory CD4+ T cell stimulation of graft DCs to produce p40 homodimers, but not IL-12 p40/p35 heterodimers. Targeting p40 abrogates memory CD8+ T cell proliferation within the allografts and their ability to mediate CTLA-4Ig-resistant allograft rejection. These findings indicate a critical role for memory CD4+ T cell-graft DC interactions to increase the intensity of endogenous memory CD8+ T cell activation needed to mediate rejection of higher-risk allografts subjected to increased CIS.	While the incidence of antibody-mediated kidney graft rejection has increased, the key cellular and molecular participants underlying this graft injury remain unclear. Rejection of kidney allografts in mice lacking the chemokine receptor CCR5 is dependent on production of donor-specific antibody. Here we determine if cells expressing cytotoxic function contributed to antibody-mediated kidney allograft rejection in these recipients. Wild-type C57BL/6, B6.CCR5(-/-), and B6.CD8(-/-)/CCR5(-/-) mice were transplanted with complete MHC-mismatched A/J kidney grafts, and intragraft inflammatory components were followed to rejection. B6.CCR5(-/-) and B6.CD8(-/-)/CCR5(-/-) recipients rejected kidney allografts by day 35, whereas 65% of allografts in wild-type recipients survived past day 80 post-transplant. Rejected allografts in wild-type C57BL/6, B6.CCR5(-/-), and B6.CD8(-/-)/CCR5(-/-) recipients expressed high levels of VCAM-1 and MMP7 mRNA that was associated with high serum titers of donor-specific antibody. High levels of perforin and granzyme B mRNA expression peaked on day 6 post-transplant in allografts in all recipients, but were absent in isografts. Depletion of natural killer cells in B6.CD8(-/-)/CCR5(-/-) recipients reduced this expression to background levels and promoted the long-term survival of 40% of the kidney allografts. Thus, natural killer cells have a role in increased inflammation during antibody-mediated kidney allograft injury and in rejection of the grafts.	Targeted deletion of the sirtuin-1, Sirt-1, gene in mouse T cells results in enhanced CD4(+) T regulatory cell function. When these mice are used as kidney allograft recipients, this deletion confers marked improvements in allograft function and survival with the development of donor-specific nonresponsiveness. Similar kidney allograft outcomes are produced in wild-type recipients treated with pharmacologic Sirt-1 inhibitors. These studies suggest a novel strategy for enhancing the immunosuppressive function of Tregs to improve graft outcomes in kidney transplant patients. 	Reperfusion of organ allografts induces a potent inflammatory response that directs rapid memory T cell, neutrophil, and macrophage graft infiltration and their activation to express functions mediating graft tissue injury. The role of cardiac allograft IL-1 receptor (IL-1R) signaling in this early inflammation and the downstream primary alloimmune response was investigated. When compared with complete MHC-mismatched wild-type cardiac allografts, IL-1R(-/-) allografts had marked decreases in endogenous memory CD8 T cell and neutrophil infiltration and expression of proinflammatory mediators at early times after transplant, whereas endogenous memory CD4 T cell and macrophage infiltration was not decreased. IL-1R(-/-) allograft recipients also had marked decreases in de novo donor-reactive CD8, but not CD4, T cell development to IFN-γ-producing cells. CD8 T cell-mediated rejection of IL-1R(-/-) cardiac allografts took 3 wk longer than wild-type allografts. Cardiac allografts from reciprocal bone marrow reconstituted IL-1R(-/-)/wild-type chimeric donors indicated that IL-1R signaling on graft nonhematopoietic-derived, but not bone marrow-derived, cells is required for the potent donor-reactive memory and primary CD8 T cell alloimmune responses observed in response to wild-type allografts. These studies implicate IL-1R-mediated signals by allograft parenchymal cells in generating the stimuli-provoking development and elicitation of optimal alloimmune responses to the grafts. 	Antibody-mediated rejection is responsible for up to half of acute rejection episodes in kidney transplant patients and more than half of late graft failures. Antibodies cause acute graft abnormalities that are distinct from T cell-mediated rejection and at later times posttransplant, a distinct pathologic lesion is associated with capillary basement membrane multilayering and glomerulopathy. Despite the importance of donor-reactive antibodies as the leading cause of kidney graft failure, mechanisms underlying antibody-mediated acute and chronic kidney graft injury are poorly understood. Here, we review recent insights provided from clinical studies as well as from animal models that may help to identify new targets for therapy. Studies of biopsies from kidney grafts in patients with donor-specific antibody versus those without have utilized analysis of pathologic lesions and gene expression to identify the distinct characteristics of antibody-mediated rejection. These analyses have indicated the presence of natural killer cells and their activation during antibody-mediated rejection. The impact of studies of antibody-mediated allograft injury in animal models have lagged behind these clinical studies, but have been useful in testing the activation of innate immune components within allografts in the presence of donor-specific antibodies. Most insights into processes of antibody-mediated rejection of kidney grafts have come from carefully designed clinical studies. However, several new mouse models of antibody-mediated kidney allograft rejection may replicate the abnormalities observed in clinical kidney grafts and may be useful in directly testing mechanisms that underlie acute and chronic antibody-mediated graft injury.	We have reported that B6.CCR5(-/-) mice reject renal allografts with high serum donor-specific antibody (DSA) titers and marked C4d deposition in grafts, features consistent with antibody-mediated rejection (AMR). B6.huCD20/CCR5(-/-) mice, where human CD20 expression is restricted to B cells, rejected A/J renal allografts by day 26 posttransplant with DSA first detected in serum on day 5 posttransplant and increased thereafter. Recipient treatment with anti-huCD20 mAb prior to the transplant and weekly up to 7 weeks posttransplant promoted long-term allograft survival (&gt;100 days) with low DSA titers. To investigate the effect of B cell depletion at the time serum DSA was first detected, recipients were treated with anti-huCD20 mAb on days 5, 8, and 12 posttransplant. This regimen significantly reduced DSA titers and graft inflammation on day 15 posttransplant and prolonged allograft survival &gt;60 days. However, DSA returned to the titers observed in control treated recipients by day 30 posttransplant and histological analyses on day 60 posttransplant indicated severe interstitial fibrosis. These results indicate that anti-huCD20 mAb had the greatest effect as a prophylactic treatment and that the distinct kinetics of DSA responses accounts for acute renal allograft failure versus the development of fibrosis. 	Rapid progress in molecular technology has allowed development of numerous molecular tools to help the clinician to evaluate graft status in kidney transplant patients. This review highlights recent findings, describing the use of molecular approaches to monitor, diagnose, and predict alloimmune-mediated injury in kidney grafts. Both previously identified and newly discovered molecular markers of immune injury have been studied and validated in large multicenter studies. Recent data indicate that measuring specific gene transcripts in noninvasive samples, such as urine or peripheral blood, can identify the occurrence of acute rejection and differentiate this immune-mediated injury from other causes of graft dysfunction. Serial monitoring of urine in stable renal transplant patients may detect the onset of rejection before development of graft dysfunction. Moreover, combining gene expression analysis with conventional histopathologic assessment of grafts can enhance the accuracy of diagnosis and may also help predict graft outcomes. Measuring specific gene transcription in noninvasive clinical samples has the potential to become an important and standard tool to monitor alloimmune-mediated injury in kidney transplant recipients. Prospective studies are ongoing to validate these findings for use of these approaches in clinical settings.
Fiocchi, Claudio	Inflammation and Immunity	30295747	29562278	29018271	26627550	25827798	25531360	24486052	24030223	23295686	23149220	Carcinoembryonic antigen-related cell adhesion molecule 1 (CEACAM1) displays multiple activities, among which pathogen binding and angiogenesis are particularly prominent. These same functions are also exerted by Toll- and NOD-like receptors (TLRs and NLRs), which are critical mediators of innate immune responses. We investigated whether a functional inter-relationship exists between CEACAM1 and TLRs and NLRs and its potential impact on induction of intestinal angiogenesis. This hypothesis was tested using human intestinal microvascular endothelial cells, a unique cell population exposed to microbial products under physiological and pathological conditions. The results show that activation of TLR2/4, TLR4, NOD1, and NOD2 by specific bacterial ligands selectively and differentially upregulates the levels of cellular and soluble CEACAM1 produced by intestinal microvascular endothelial cells. The results also show that CEACAM1 regulates the migration, transmigration, and tube formation of these endothelial cells and mediates vessel sprouting induced by specific TLR and NLR bacterial ligands. Combined, these results demonstrate a close and reciprocal regulatory interaction between CEACAM1 and bacterial products in mediating multiple functions essential to new vessel formation in the gut mucosa. A coordinated and reciprocal interaction of CEACAM1 and microbiota-derived factors is necessary to optimize angiogenesis in the gut mucosa. This suggests that a coordination of endogenous and exogenous innate immune responses is necessary to promote intestinal angiogenesis under physiological and inflammatory conditions such as inflammatory bowel disease.	Despite unquestionable progress in the management of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and the much improved clinical results achievable today in Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC) patients, the overall therapeutic outcome remains far from optimal. The main reason of this partial success is that all current medications only block individual components of a highly complex disease process that results from the integration of multiple and incompletely identified pathogenic components. Thus, if further progress is to be achieved in IBD therapeutics and we want to move from the current success rate to nearly 100%, bold new ideas must be entertained and new approaches put into practice. Both are necessary because in IBD we are dealing with a prototypical complex disease superimposed to the background of the extreme biological diversity of humans in response to injury. An unresolved challenge mandates the adoption of new solutions specifically designed to address the unique features of that challenge. Translated to a disease condition, and IBD in particular, the unresolved challenges of CD and UC demand bold new thinking leading to the conception and implementation of totally innovative therapies. In this article, we propose that one such new thinking is the notion of network medicine for IBD, and that the development of brand new treatments should be based on the identification of the molecular structure of the IBD interactome with the purpose of targeting its controlling elements (central nodes or hubs). This specific targeting of the underlying molecular disease modules will lead to the disruption of the IBD interactome and foster the resolution of intestinal inflammatory process.	A number of environmental factors have been associated with the development of IBD. Alteration of the gut microbiota, or dysbiosis, is closely linked to initiation or progression of IBD, but whether dysbiosis is a primary or secondary event is unclear. Nevertheless, early-life events such as birth, breastfeeding and exposure to antibiotics, as well as later childhood events, are considered potential risk factors for IBD. Air pollution, a consequence of the progressive contamination of the environment by countless compounds, is another factor associated with IBD, as particulate matter or other components can alter the host's mucosal defences and trigger immune responses. Hypoxia associated with high altitude is also a factor under investigation as a potential new trigger of IBD flares. A key issue is how to translate environmental factors into mechanisms of IBD, and systems biology is increasingly recognized as a strategic tool to unravel the molecular alterations leading to IBD. Environmental factors add a substantial level of complexity to the understanding of IBD pathogenesis but also promote the fundamental notion that complex diseases such as IBD require complex therapies that go well beyond the current single-agent treatment approach. This Review describes the current conceptualization, evidence, progress and direction surrounding the association of environmental factors with IBD.	IBD is a chronic inflammatory condition of the gastrointestinal tract encompassing two main clinical entities: Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. Although Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis have historically been studied together because they share common features (such as symptoms, structural damage and therapy), it is now clear that they represent two distinct pathophysiological entities. Both Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis are associated with multiple pathogenic factors including environmental changes, an array of susceptibility gene variants, a qualitatively and quantitatively abnormal gut microbiota and a broadly dysregulated immune response. In spite of this realization and the identification of seemingly pertinent environmental, genetic, microbial and immune factors, a full understanding of IBD pathogenesis is still out of reach and, consequently, treatment is far from optimal. An important reason for this unsatisfactory situation is the currently limited comprehension of what are the truly relevant components of IBD immunopathogenesis. This article will comprehensively review current knowledge of the classic immune components and will expand the concept of IBD immunopathogenesis to include various cells, mediators and pathways that have not been traditionally associated with disease mechanisms, but that profoundly affect the overall intestinal inflammatory process.	Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is presently one of the most investigated human disorders. Expansion of knowledge of its pathophysiology has helped in developing novel medications to combat gut inflammation with a considerably degree of success. Despite this progress, much more remains to be done in regard to gaining a more profound understanding of IBD pathogenesis, detecting inflammation before it clinically manifests, implementing lifestyle modifications, and developing agents that can modify the natural course of the disease. One of the limitations to achieve these goals is the lack of integration of the major components of IBD pathogenesis, that is the exposome, the genome, the gut microbiome, and the immunome. An &quot;IBD integrome&quot; approach that takes advantage of all functional information derived from the detailed investigation of each single pathogenic component through the use of systems biology may offer the solution to understand IBD and cure it. 	The complexity of IBD is well recognized as are the putative four major components of its pathogenesis, i.e. environment, genetic makeup, gut microbiota and mucosal immune response. Each of these components is extremely complex on its own, and at present should be more appropriately defined by the terms 'exposome', 'genome', 'microbiome' and 'immunome', respectively, based on the 'ome' suffix that refers to a totality of some sort. None of these 'omes' is apparently capable of causing IBD by itself; it is instead the intricate and reciprocal interaction among them, through the so-called 'IBD interactome', that results in the emergence of IBD, or more appropriately the 'IBD integrome'. To deal with and understand such overwhelming biological complexity, new approaches and tools are needed, and these are represented by 'omics', defined as the study of related sets of biological molecules in a comprehensive fashion, such as genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, metabolomics, and so on. Numerous bioinformatics-based tools are available to explore and take advantage of the massive amount of information that can be generated by the analysis of the various omes and their interactions, aiming at identifying the molecular interactome underlying any particular status of health and disease. These novel approaches are fully applicable to IBD and allow us to achieve the ultimate goal of developing and applying personalized medicine and far more effective therapies to individual patients with Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. For the practicing gastroenterologist, an omics-based delivery of healthcare may be intimidating, but it must be accepted and implemented if he or she is to provide the best possible care to IBD patients.	Patients with eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE) often become dysphagic from the combination of organ fibrosis and motor abnormalities. We investigated mechanisms of dysphagia, assessing the response of human esophageal fibroblasts (HEFs), human esophageal muscle cells (HEMCs), and esophageal muscle strips to eosinophil-derived products. Biopsy specimens were collected via endoscopy from the upper, middle, and lower thirds of the esophagus of 18 patients with EoE and 21 individuals undergoing endoscopy for other reasons (controls). Primary cultures of esophageal fibroblasts and muscle cells were derived from 12 freshly resected human esophagectomy specimens. Eosinophil distribution was investigated by histologic analyses of full-thickness esophageal tissue. Active secretion of EoE-related mediators was assessed from medium underlying mucosal biopsy cultures. We quantified production of fibronectin and collagen I by HEF and HEMC in response to eosinophil products. We also measured the expression of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 by, and adhesion of human eosinophils to, HEFs and HEMCs. Eosinophil products were tested in an esophageal muscle contraction assay. Activated eosinophils were present in all esophageal layers. Significantly higher concentrations of eosinophil-related mediators were secreted spontaneously in mucosal biopsy specimens from patients with EoE than controls. Exposure of HEFs and HEMCs to increasing concentrations of eosinophil products or co-culture with eosinophils caused HEFs and HEMCs to increase secretion of fibronectin and collagen I; this was inhibited by blocking transforming growth factor β1 and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling. Eosinophil binding to HEFs and HEMCs increased after incubation of mesenchymal cells with eosinophil-derived products, and decreased after blockade of transforming growth factor β1 and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase blockade. Eosinophil products reduced electrical field-induced contraction of esophageal muscle strips, but not acetylcholine-induced contraction. In an analysis of tissues samples from patients with EoE, we linked the presence and activation state of eosinophils in EoE with altered fibrogenesis and motility of esophageal fibroblasts and muscle cells. This process might contribute to the development of dysphagia.	The clinical course of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is highly heterogeneous and often unpredictable, with multiple and serious complications that range from stricture formation to bowel obstruction or perforation, fistula formation and the need for surgery. All these problems are manifestations of tissue remodeling, a secondary but universal response to the insults of chronic inflammation. The factors involved in tissue remodeling are several, including the site and duration of inflammation, soluble molecules, the gut microbiota, and the type of mesenchymal cell response. The prototypical and most common type of tissue remodeling in IBD, and Crohn's disease (CD) in particular, is a fibrotic response, and this review will focus on the factors and mechanisms involved in fibrogenesis, and speculate on what is needed for the development of a rational treatment of intestinal fibrosis.	It is becoming increasingly evident that the old paradigm of disease pathogenesis where a given genotype would determine a phenotype and this would lead to a particular disease is no longer acceptable. Many novel components are now recognized to be involved in the predisposition, triggering, progression and outcome of chronic inflammatory diseases like inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Accordingly, investigation of IBD must recognize this complexity and take all potential components into account, if a full understanding of disease pathophysiology is to be reached and truly effective therapies developed based on this new global understanding. Essential to this approach is the notion of functional integration. Groups of functionally related pathogenic components must be assembled and studied as 'omes' like, for instance, the genome and the microbiome; at the same time all relevant 'omes' must be functionally and meaningfully integrated into the 'interactome', while the 'epigenome' should be used to dissect and understand the connections underlying the interactome. This is an ideal but also realistic scenario for the immediate future, as some of the 'omes' are already being explored in greater depth and their interactions examined through investigation of gene-gene (GXG) and gene-environment (GXE) interactions. Current knowledge of GXG and GXE and their impact on IBD pathogenesis is the focus of this review.	In intestinal inflammation the gut microbiota induces an innate immune response by activating epithelial and immune cells that initiate or maintain inflammation. We investigated whether the microbiota also can activate local microvascular cells and induce angiogenesis. Human intestinal microvascular endothelial cells (HIMEC) and human intestinal fibroblasts (HIF) were exposed to bacterial ligands specific for Toll-like receptor (TLR)2/6 and 4, and NOD1 and NOD2, and cell proliferation, migration, transmigration, tube formation, and production of pro-angiogenic factors were measured. The ability of the ligands to induce ex vivo vessel sprouting in an aortic ring assay and in vivo angiogenesis using a collagen gel assay also were assessed. Bacterial ligands induced proliferation, migration, transmigration, tube formation of HIMEC, vessel sprouting, and in vivo angiogenesis; they also stimulated production of angiogenic factors from HIMEC and HIF, and HIF-derived angiogenic factors promoted HIMEC proliferation. To various degrees, all ligands induced angiogenic responses, but these were ligand- and cell type-dependent. Responses were mediated through receptor interacting protein-2 (RIP2)- and tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6)-dependent signaling, involved the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) pathways and the up-regulation of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGF-R2) and focal adhesion kinase (FAK). Knockdown of RIP2 and TRAF6 by RNA interference and neutralization of interleukin-8, basic fibroblast growth factor, and vascular endothelial growth factor inhibited TLR-/NOD-like receptor-induced HIMEC angiogenesis. The gut microbiota can selectively activate mucosal endothelial and mesenchymal cells to promote specific angiogenic responses in a TLR- and NOD-like receptor-dependent fashion. This innate immunity-mediated response may expand the mucosal microvascular network, foster immune cell recruitment, and contribute to chronic intestinal inflammation.
Flannery, David	Genomic Medicine Institute	30199404	22407893	12457409	11478533	1951440	1993956	21948486	18666229	15739154	2077489	Demand for clinical genetics and genomics services is increasing. As discussed in this study, the clinical genetics and genomics workforce is small. How to meet the demand with a limited workforce requires innovation. Background data regarding the current state of clinical genetic services including volume of services and make-up of the clinical genetics workforce are presented. The study then identifies opportunities to increase access to clinical genetic service providers using new models of service and discusses examples of solutions which have been implemented in some practice settings. Creative uses of technology to increase providers' efficiency are highlighted. Clinical genetics service providers need to rise to the occasion and lead the transformation of clinical genetic service delivery. Many of the examples of solutions described in the study can be implemented by other providers now. Additionally, the described solutions may serve to inspire genetic providers to create their own new solutions, which should then be shared with the provider community.	NA	We report a patient with a mosaic karyotype resulting from an adjacent 1 segregation of the familial autosomal translocation (11;22). The karyotype seen in fibroblast is 46,XY,der(22)t(11;22)(q23.3;q11.2)/46,XY. No evidence of the abnormal cell line was seen in the cultures obtained from the lymphocytes. The clinical phenotype of the patient does not fit a particular pattern of partial monosomy 22 or partial trisomy 11. There are some features that have been previously reported in patients with trisomy 11q23 --&gt; qter. The mosaic karyotype in our patient could be a result of a series of postzygotic mitotic events of a zygote carrying the der(22) chromosome. These mechanisms involve events that are well documented for several chromosomes. This case underscores the necessity of performing exhaustive cytogenetic analysis in patients with an abnormal phenotype with a family history of a chromosome rearrangement in fibroblast cells if lymphocyte analysis is normal.	Critically ill neonates are frequently transfused with packed red cells. Some of these transfused neonates also need chromosome analysis. There is a long-standing tradition in pediatrics of not performing chromosome analysis after transfusion. We wished to determine whether transfusion with packed red cells affect the cytogenetic results in neonates. The medical records of all neonates at the Medical College of Georgia who had had chromosome analysis between June 1995 and June 1998 were reviewed. Ten neonates had received transfusion prior to cytogenetic testing. Of these 10 infants, two had been transfused two or more times. Routine cytogenetic analysis of 20 metaphases at 550-band level had been performed on all 10 patients. Heteromorphic markers were compared in 10 randomly selected metaphases for any discrepancy. To determine whether there were theoretical reasons to delay chromosome analysis in transfused neonates, samples of irradiated, and/or filtered, and nonfiltered blood were obtained from the blood bank and analyzed for the presence of lymphocytes. Prior transfusion did not affect karyotype results. A nonmosaic abnormal karyotype was found in 3 of the 10 patients. A fourth patient's karyotype was 45,X/47,XXX. This mosaicism was constitutive and consistent as demonstrated by a follow-up chromosome analysis. All other abnormal karyotypes were consistent with the dysmorphic phenotype. Randomly selected metaphases did not show any differences in the identifiable heteromorphic markers in all 10 patients. Although there was a 50% chance of patients receiving blood from a donor of opposite sex, there were no instances in which cells with a karyotype of the opposite sex were found in the patients' blood. The irradiated and filtered cultured donor blood samples did not show any metaphases. However, metaphases were seen in the cultures from nonfiltered and nonirradiated donor blood. Based on these results one does not need to delay karyotyping babies who have had blood transfusions. Packed red cell transfusion in newborns does not compromise the accuracy of chromosome analysis in our study even with multiple transfusions.	NA	NA	We report 24 unrelated individuals with deletions and 17 additional cases with duplications at 10q11.21q21.1 identified by chromosomal microarray analysis. The rearrangements range in size from 0.3 to 12 Mb. Nineteen of the deletions and eight duplications are flanked by large, directly oriented segmental duplications of &gt;98% sequence identity, suggesting that nonallelic homologous recombination (NAHR) caused these genomic rearrangements. Nine individuals with deletions and five with duplications have additional copy number changes. Detailed clinical evaluation of 20 patients with deletions revealed variable clinical features, with developmental delay (DD) and/or intellectual disability (ID) as the only features common to a majority of individuals. We suggest that some of the other features present in more than one patient with deletion, including hypotonia, sleep apnea, chronic constipation, gastroesophageal and vesicoureteral refluxes, epilepsy, ataxia, dysphagia, nystagmus, and ptosis may result from deletion of the CHAT gene, encoding choline acetyltransferase, and the SLC18A3 gene, mapping in the first intron of CHAT and encoding vesicular acetylcholine transporter. The phenotypic diversity and presence of the deletion in apparently normal carrier parents suggest that subjects carrying 10q11.21q11.23 deletions may exhibit variable phenotypic expressivity and incomplete penetrance influenced by additional genetic and nongenetic modifiers.	Approximately, 20 cases of interstitial deletions of 9q have been reported in the literature spanning the breakpoints from 9q21 to 9q34. Unlike the 9q subtelomeric deletions, the interstitial deletions do not demonstrate a specific recognizable phenotype, although the majority of patients had microcephaly. Lack of precise molecular delineation of the extent of deletions in the published cases makes it difficult to develop an accurate genotype-phenotype correlation. We report on fine mapping of breakpoints using the Affymetrix Human Mapping 500K Array Set in two unrelated female patients with overlapping de novo deletion in 9q. SNP oligonucleotide microarray analysis (SOMA) indicated these to be relatively large deletions with Patient 1 having a 6.47 Mb deletion (&gt;60 genes) spanning 9q32-q33.2 and Patient 2 having a 9.68 Mb deletion (&gt;20 genes) localized to 9q31.1-q33.1. FISH analysis with BAC clones localized to the breakpoints showed discrepant results in Patient 1. Based on the review of previously reported interstitial 9q deletion patients and our patients, the minimal region of overlap (MRO) appears to encompass the 9q32 region and a phenotype characterized by microcephaly, neurological dysfunction and facial dysmorphism can be deduced. Our study shows the investigative nature of the latest array technology and the limitations of this technology in the accurate delineation of breakpoints.	Mutations in the GLI3 zinc-finger transcription factor gene cause Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome (GCPS) and Pallister-Hall syndrome (PHS), which are variable but distinct clinical entities. We hypothesized that GLI3 mutations that predict a truncated functional repressor protein cause PHS and that functional haploinsufficiency of GLI3 causes GCPS. To test these hypotheses, we screened patients with PHS and GCPS for GLI3 mutations. The patient group consisted of 135 individuals: 89 patients with GCPS and 46 patients with PHS. We detected 47 pathological mutations (among 60 probands); when these were combined with previously published mutations, two genotype-phenotype correlations were evident. First, GCPS was caused by many types of alterations, including translocations, large deletions, exonic deletions and duplications, small in-frame deletions, and missense, frameshift/nonsense, and splicing mutations. In contrast, PHS was caused only by frameshift/nonsense and splicing mutations. Second, among the frameshift/nonsense mutations, there was a clear genotype-phenotype correlation. Mutations in the first third of the gene (from open reading frame [ORF] nucleotides [nt] 1-1997) caused GCPS, and mutations in the second third of the gene (from ORF nt 1998-3481) caused primarily PHS. Surprisingly, there were 12 mutations in patients with GCPS in the 3' third of the gene (after ORF nt 3481), and no patients with PHS had mutations in this region. These results demonstrate a robust correlation of genotype and phenotype for GLI3 mutations and strongly support the hypothesis that these two allelic disorders have distinct modes of pathogenesis.	Anomalous conotruncal cardiac morphology and facial dysmorphology have been associated with neural crest-pharyngeal arch abnormalities. To assess these associations, 20 patients 3 to 18 years old with tetralogy of Fallot (TOF) or persistent truncus arteriosus (PTA) were evaluated by cardiologic, facial dysmorphic, and cephalometric criteria. The average number of facial abnormalities of neural crest derivation was two, while pharyngeal arch derivative abnormalities were observed with an average of five defects per subject. The total group had many more facial malformations than normal populations (P less than .00001). The occurrence of defects was not significantly different between TOF and PTA patients. Thirteen TOF patients 8 years, 9 months to 18 years, 10 months old (x = 13 years, 4 months) had lateral cephalograms analyzed for skeletal relationships. The TOF patients exhibited higher than usual distribution of dolichofacial growth patterns (6 of 13), Class II skeletal relationships (6 of 13), mandibular retrusion (7 of 13), and maxillary protrusion (6 of 13). Trends were not absolute, since opposite patterns were individually expressed, and referencing by race tended to show more normal values for respective groups.
Fleischman, Aaron	Biomedical Engineering	20442019	22163683	15014268	19055419	16133803	22357558	20552673	20054402	19539062	19524292	Focused broadband miniature polyvinylidene fluoride-trifluoroethylene (PVDF TrFE) ultrasonic transducers were investigated for intravascular (IVUS) second-harmonic imaging. Modeling and experimental studies demonstrated that focused transducers, unlike conventional flat transducers, build up second harmonic peak pressures faster and stronger, leading to an increased SNR of second harmonic content within the coronary geometry. Experimental results demonstrated that focused second harmonic pressures could be controlled to occur at specific depths by controlling the f-number of the transducer. The experimental results were in good agreement with the modeled results. Experiments were conducted using three imaging modalities: fundamental 20 MHz (F20), second harmonic 40 MHz (H40), and fundamental 40 MHz (F40). The lateral resolutions for a 1-mm transducer (f-number 3.2) at F20, F40, and H40 were experimentally measured to be 162, 123, and 124 microm, respectively, which agreed well with the theoretical calculations with &lt;8% error. Lateral resolution was further characterized in the three modes, using a micromachined phantom consisting of fixed bars and spaces with widths ranging from 20 to 160 microm. H40 exhibited better lateral resolution, clearly displaying 40- and 60-microm bars with about 4 dB and 7 dB greater signal strength compared with F20. Ex vivo human aorta images were obtained in the second-harmonic imaging mode to show the feasibility of high resolution second-harmonic IVUS using focused transducers.	Polyvinilidene fluoride (PVDF) single-element transducers for high-frequency (&gt;30 MHz) ultrasound imaging applications have been developed using MEMS (Micro-electro-Mechanical Systems) compatible techniques. Performance of these transducers has been investigated by analyzing the sources and effects of on-chip parasitic capacitances on the insertion-loss of the transducers. Modeling and experimental studies showed that on-chip parasitic capacitances degraded the performance of the transducers and an improved method of fabrication was suggested and new devices were built. New devices developed with minimal parasitic effects were shown to improve the performance significantly. A 1-mm aperture PVDF device developed with minimal parasitic effects has resulted in a reduction of insertion loss of 21 dB compared with devices fabricated using a previous method.	NA	Magnetic deposition microscropy (MDM) combines magnetic deposition and optical analysis of magnetically tagged cells into a single platform. Our multistage MDM uses enclosed microfabricated channels and a magnet assembly comprising four zones in series. The enclosed channels alleviate the problem plaguing previous versions of MDM: scouring of the cell deposition layer by the air-liquid interface as the channel is drained. The four-zone magnet assembly was designed to maximize capture efficiency, and experiments yielded total capture efficiencies of &gt;99% of fluorescent- and magnetically-labeled Jurkat cells at reasonable throughputs (10(3) cells/min). A digital image processing protocol was developed to measure the average pixel intensities of the deposited cells in different zones, indicative of the marker expression. Preliminary findings indicate that the multistage MDM may be suitable for depositing cells and particles in successive zones according to their magnetic properties (e.g., magnetic susceptibilities or magnetophoretic mobilities). The overall goal is to allow the screening of multiple disease conditions in a single platform.	A system for flow measurement in micro/nano fluidic components is presented. Microfabricated arrays of straight channels with noncircular cross-sections were used for flow rate measurement. The calculated flow rates in these channels were determined using a finite difference approximation method. A pneumatic pumping system was utilized to control the pressure drop across the channels and flow rates were measured by collecting the fluids on a sensitive balance. The experimental setup was validated using long narrow circular tubes that mimic the range of flow resistances characteristic of micro/nano fluidic devices. Two types of channels cross-section were investigated. The first type contained an array of channels that were approximately trapezoidal (microchannels, approximately 6.5 microm deep) in cross-section and exhibited flow rates of 27.7--119.4 micro L/min within a pressure range of 64.1--277.1 kPa (9.3--40.2 psi). The second type contained an array of channels that were approximately arc-shaped (nanochannels, approximately 600 nm deep) and generated flow rates of 0.29--0.99 micro L/min within a pressure range of 137.2--334.4 kPa (19.9--48.5 psi). The flow rates calculated by the finite difference approximation method were within 5.5% and 19.68% of the average experimental flow rates in the microchannels and nanochannels, respectively.	Surface charge characterization is important in the design and testing of coatings and membranes for biological and industrial applications, but commercial zeta potential meters are expensive and difficult to adapt to a variety of membrane designs. We combined inexpensive off-the-shelf components, a test mount fabricated with a conventional rapid prototyping system, and software written using a no-cost integrated development environment to implement a low-cost, automated streaming potential meter. Software written in Visual C# managed a USB data acquisition and control pod to regulate the transmembrane pressure while simultaneously reading transmembrane voltages from a digital multimeter with 0.1-nV precision. The streaming potential was measured through a commercially available polyethersulfone membrane with repeatable results for transmembrane pressures between -15 and 15 kPa. The transmembrane voltages for each set of six pressures were linear, with R (2) values greater than 0.9995. The zeta potentials calculated from the measured streaming potentials are in agreement with previous results for the same commercial membrane previously reported in the literature. The material cost for the system is less than $4000.	We have developed a bilayer microfluidic system with integrated transepithelial electrical resistance (TEER) measurement electrodes to evaluate kidney epithelial cells under physiologically relevant fluid flow conditions. The bioreactor consists of apical and basolateral fluidic chambers connected via a transparent microporous membrane. The top chamber contains microfluidic channels to perfuse the apical surface of the cells. The bottom chamber acts as a reservoir for transport across the cell layer and provides support for the membrane. TEER electrodes were integrated into the device to monitor cell growth and evaluate cell-cell tight junction integrity. Immunofluorescence staining was performed within the microchannels for ZO-1 tight junction protein and acetylated α-tubulin (primary cilia) using human renal epithelial cells (HREC) and MDCK cells. HREC were stained for cytoskeletal F-actin and exhibited disassembly of cytosolic F-actin stress fibers when exposed to shear stress. TEER was monitored over time under normal culture conditions and after disruption of the tight junctions using low Ca(2+) medium. The transport rate of a fluorescently labeled tracer molecule (FITC-inulin) was measured before and after Ca(2+) switch and a decrease in TEER corresponded with a large increase in paracellular inulin transport. This bioreactor design provides an instrumented platform with physiologically meaningful flow conditions to study various epithelial cell transport processes.	Silicon micromachining provides the precise control of nanoscale features that can be fundamentally enabling for miniaturized, implantable medical devices. Concerns have been raised regarding blood biocompatibility of silicon-based materials and their application to hemodialysis and hemofiltration. A high-performance ultrathin hemofiltration membrane with monodisperse slit-shaped pores was fabricated using a sacrificial oxide technique and then surface-modified with poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG). Fluid and macromolecular transport matched model predictions well. Protein adsorption, fouling, and thrombosis were significantly inhibited by the PEG. The membrane retained hydraulic permeability and molecular selectivity during a 90 hour hemofiltration experiment with anticoagulated bovine whole blood. This is the first report of successful prolonged hemofiltration with a silicon nanopore membrane. The results demonstrate feasibility of renal replacement devices based on these membranes and materials.	The influence of surface microtexture on osteogenesis was investigated in vitro by examining the proliferation and differentiation characteristics of a class of adult stem cells and their progeny, collectively known as connective tissue progenitor cells (CTPs). Human bone marrow-derived CTPs were cultured for up to 60 days on smooth polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) surfaces and on PDMS with post microtextures that were 10 microm in diameter and 6 microm in height, with 10 microm separation. DNA quantification revealed that the numbers of CTPs initially attached to both substrates were similar. However, cells on microtextured PDMS transitioned from lag phase after 4 days of culture, in contrast to 6 days for cells on smooth surfaces. By day 9 cells on the smooth surfaces exhibited arbitrary flattened shapes and migrated without any preferred orientation. In contrast, cells on the microtextured PDMS grew along the array of posts in an orthogonal manner. By days 30 and 60 cells grew and covered all surfaces with extracellular matrix. Western blot analysis revealed that the expression of integrin alpha5 was greater on the microtextured PDMS compared with smooth surfaces. Real time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction revealed that gene expression of alkaline phosphatase had decreased by days 30 and 60, compared with that on day 9, for both substrates. Gene expression of collagen I and osteocalcin was consistently greater on post microtextures relative to smooth surfaces at all time points.	A three-dimensional (3D) structure comprising precisely defined micro-architecture and surface micro-textures, designed to present specific physical cues to cells and tissues, may provide an efficient scaffold in a variety of tissue engineering and regenerative medicine applications. We report a fabrication technique based on microfabrication and soft lithography that permits for the development of 3D scaffolds with both precisely engineered architecture and tailored surface topography. The scaffold fabrication technique consists of three key steps starting with microfabrication of a mold using an epoxy-based photoresist (SU-8), followed by dual-sided molding of a single layer of polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) using a mechanical jig for precise motion control; and finally, alignment, stacking, and adhesion of multiple PDMS layers to achieve a 3D structure. This technique was used to produce 3D Texture and 3D Smooth PDMS scaffolds, where the surface topography comprised 10 microm diameter/height posts and smooth surfaces, respectively. The potential utility of the 3D microfabricated scaffolds, and the role of surface topography, were subsequently investigated in vitro with a combined heterogeneous population of adult human stem cells and their resultant progenitor cells, collectively termed connective tissue progenitors (CTPs), under conditions promoting the osteoblastic phenotype. Examination of bone-marrow derived CTPs cultured on the 3D Texture scaffold for 9 days revealed cell growth in three dimensions and increased cell numbers compared to those on the 3D Smooth scaffold. Furthermore, expression of alkaline phosphatase mRNA was higher on the 3D Texture scaffold, while osteocalcin mRNA expression was comparable for both types of scaffolds.
Fox, Paul	Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences	30612880	30309984	29643180	29152905	28777042	28520992	28178239	27729295	26122849	25786748	Multisite phosphorylation of kinases can induce on-off or graded regulation of catalytic activity; however, its influence on substrate specificity remains unclear. Here, we show that multisite phosphorylation of ribosomal protein S6 kinase 1 (S6K1) alters target selection. Agonist-inducible phosphorylation of glutamyl-prolyl tRNA synthetase (EPRS) by S6K1 in monocytes and adipocytes requires not only canonical phosphorylation at Thr<sup>389</sup> by mTORC1 but also phosphorylation at Ser<sup>424</sup> and Ser<sup>429</sup> in the C terminus by cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5). S6K1 phosphorylation at these additional sites induces a conformational switch and is essential for high-affinity binding and phosphorylation of EPRS, but not canonical S6K1 targets, e.g., ribosomal protein S6. Unbiased proteomic analysis identified additional targets phosphorylated by multisite phosphorylated S6K1 in insulin-stimulated adipocytes-namely, coenzyme A synthase, lipocalin 2, and cortactin. Thus, embedded within S6K1 is a target-selective kinase phospho-code that integrates signals from mTORC1 and Cdk5 to direct an insulin-stimulated, post-translational metabolon determining adipocyte lipid metabolism.	About 1 billion years ago, in a single-celled holozoan ancestor of all animals, a gene fusion of two tRNA synthetases formed the bifunctional enzyme, glutamyl-prolyl-tRNA synthetase (EPRS). We propose here that a confluence of metabolic, biochemical, and environmental factors contributed to the specific fusion of glutamyl- (ERS) and prolyl- (PRS) tRNA synthetases. To test this idea, we developed a mathematical model that centers on the precursor-product relationship of glutamic acid and proline, as well as metabolic constraints on free glutamic acid availability near the time of the fusion event. Our findings indicate that proline content increased in the proteome during the emergence of animals, thereby increasing demand for free proline. Together, these constraints contributed to a marked cellular depletion of glutamic acid and its products, with potentially catastrophic consequences. In response, an ancient organism invented an elegant solution in which genes encoding ERS and PRS fused to form EPRS, forcing coexpression of the two enzymes and preventing lethal dysregulation. The substantial evolutionary advantage of this coregulatory mechanism is evidenced by the persistence of EPRS in nearly all extant animals.	Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are ubiquitous, evolutionarily conserved enzymes catalyzing the conjugation of amino acids onto cognate tRNAs. During eukaryotic evolution, tRNA synthetases have been the targets of persistent structural modifications. These modifications can be additive, as in the evolutionary acquisition of noncatalytic domains, or subtractive, as in the generation of truncated variants through regulated mechanisms such as proteolytic processing, alternative splicing, or coding region polyadenylation. A unique variant is the human glutamyl-prolyl-tRNA synthetase (EPRS) consisting of two fused synthetases joined by a linker containing three copies of the WHEP domain (termed by its presence in tryptophanyl-, histidyl-, and glutamyl-prolyl-tRNA synthetases). Here, we identify site-selective proteolysis as a mechanism that severs the linkage between the EPRS synthetases in vitro and in vivo Caspase action targeted Asp-929 in the third WHEP domain, thereby separating the two synthetases. Using a neoepitope antibody directed against the newly exposed C terminus, we demonstrate EPRS cleavage at Asp-929 in vitro and in vivo Biochemical and biophysical characterizations of the N-terminally generated EPRS proteoform containing the glutamyl-tRNA synthetase and most of the linker, including two WHEP domains, combined with structural analysis by small-angle neutron scattering, revealed a role for the WHEP domains in modulating conformations of the catalytic core and GSH-S-transferase-C-terminal-like (GST-C) domain. WHEP-driven conformational rearrangement altered GST-C domain interactions and conferred distinct oligomeric states in solution. Collectively, our results reveal long-range conformational changes imposed by the WHEP domains and illustrate how noncatalytic domains can modulate the global structure of tRNA synthetases in complex eukaryotic systems.	The interferon (IFN)-γ-activated inhibitor of translation (GAIT) system directs transcript-selective translational control of functionally related genes. In myeloid cells, IFN-γ induces formation of a multiprotein GAIT complex that binds structural GAIT elements in the 3'-untranslated regions (UTRs) of multiple inflammation-related mRNAs, including ceruloplasmin and VEGF-A, and represses their translation. The human GAIT complex is a heterotetramer containing glutamyl-prolyl tRNA synthetase (EPRS), NS1-associated protein 1 (NSAP1), ribosomal protein L13a (L13a), and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH). A network of IFN-γ-stimulated kinases regulates recruitment and assembly of GAIT complex constituents. Activation of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5), mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1), and S6K1 kinases induces EPRS release from its parental multiaminoacyl tRNA synthetase complex to join NSAP1 in a 'pre-GAIT' complex. Subsequently, the DAPK-ZIPK kinase axis phosphorylates L13a, inducing release from the 60S ribosomal subunit and binding to GAPDH. The subcomplexes join to form the functional GAIT complex. Each constituent has a distinct role in the GAIT system. EPRS binds the GAIT element in target mRNAs, NSAP1 negatively regulates mRNA binding, L13a binds eIF4G to block ribosome recruitment, and GAPDH shields L13a from proteasomal degradation. The GAIT system is susceptible to genetic and condition-specific regulation. An N-terminus EPRS truncate is a dominant-negative inhibitor ensuring a 'translational trickle' of target transcripts. Also, hypoxia and oxidatively modified lipoproteins regulate GAIT activity. Mouse models exhibiting absent or genetically modified GAIT complex constituents are beginning to elucidate the physiological role of the GAIT system, particularly in the resolution of chronic inflammation. Finally, GAIT-like systems in proto-chordates suggests an evolutionarily conserved role of the pathway in innate immunity. WIREs RNA 2018, 9:e1441. doi: 10.1002/wrna.1441 This article is categorized under: Translation &gt; Translation Regulation RNA Interactions with Proteins and Other Molecules &gt; RNA-Protein Complexes Regulatory RNAs/RNAi/Riboswitches &gt; Riboswitches.	NA	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) and heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins (hnRNPs) are families of sequence-specific, posttranscriptional modulators of gene expression. Despite extensive mechanistic and functional studies on both regulatory classes, the interactions and crosstalk between them are largely unexplored. We have reported that competition between miR-297 and hnRNP L to bind a 3΄UTR-localized CA-rich element (CARE) of VEGFA mRNA regulates its translation. Here, we show that translation of VEGFA mRNA in human myeloid cells is dictated by a bi-directional interaction between miR-574-3p, a CA-rich microRNA, and hnRNP L. In normoxia, miR-574-3p, acting as a decoy, binds cytoplasmic hnRNP L and prevents its binding to the CARE and stimulation of VEGFA mRNA translation, simultaneously permitting miR-297-mediated translational silencing. However, in hypoxia, cytoplasmic accumulation of Tyr359-phosphorylated hnRNP L sequesters miR-574-3p, overcoming its decoy activity and seed sequence-dependent gene silencing activity. Ectopically expressed miR-574-3p binds multiple RNA recognition motif (RRM) domains of hnRNP L, synergizes with miR-297, reduces VEGFA mRNA translation, and triggers apoptosis, thereby suppressing tumorigenesis. Our studies establish a novel condition-dependent interplay between a miRNA and an hnRNP that regulates their functions in a bidirectional manner.	Metabolic pathways that contribute to adiposity and ageing are activated by the mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) and p70 ribosomal protein S6 kinase 1 (S6K1) axis. However, known mTORC1-S6K1 targets do not account for observed loss-of-function phenotypes, suggesting that there are additional downstream effectors of this pathway. Here we identify glutamyl-prolyl-tRNA synthetase (EPRS) as an mTORC1-S6K1 target that contributes to adiposity and ageing. Phosphorylation of EPRS at Ser999 by mTORC1-S6K1 induces its release from the aminoacyl tRNA multisynthetase complex, which is required for execution of noncanonical functions of EPRS beyond protein synthesis. To investigate the physiological function of EPRS phosphorylation, we generated Eprs knock-in mice bearing phospho-deficient Ser999-to-Ala (S999A) and phospho-mimetic (S999D) mutations. Homozygous S999A mice exhibited low body weight, reduced adipose tissue mass, and increased lifespan, similar to S6K1-deficient mice and mice with adipocyte-specific deficiency of raptor, an mTORC1 constituent. Substitution of the Eprs<sup>S999D</sup> allele in S6K1-deficient mice normalized body mass and adiposity, indicating that EPRS phosphorylation mediates S6K1-dependent metabolic responses. In adipocytes, insulin stimulated S6K1-dependent EPRS phosphorylation and release from the multisynthetase complex. Interaction screening revealed that phospho-EPRS binds SLC27A1 (that is, fatty acid transport protein 1, FATP1), inducing its translocation to the plasma membrane and long-chain fatty acid uptake. Thus, EPRS and FATP1 are terminal mTORC1-S6K1 axis effectors that are critical for metabolic phenotypes.	Phosphorylation of many aminoacyl tRNA synthetases (AARSs) has been recognized for decades, but the contribution of post-translational modification to their primary role in tRNA charging and decryption of genetic code remains unclear. In contrast, phosphorylation is essential for performance of diverse noncanonical functions of AARSs unrelated to protein synthesis. Phosphorylation of glutamyl-prolyl tRNA synthetase (EPRS) has been investigated extensively in our laboratory for more than a decade, and has served as an archetype for studies of other AARSs. EPRS is a constituent of the IFN-γ-activated inhibitor of translation (GAIT) complex that directs transcript-selective translational control in myeloid cells. Stimulus-dependent phosphorylation of EPRS is essential for its release from the parental multi-aminoacyl tRNA synthetase complex (MSC), for binding to other GAIT complex proteins, and for regulating the binding to target mRNAs. Importantly, phosphorylation is the common driving force for the context- and stimulus-dependent release, and non-canonical activity, of other AARSs residing in the MSC, for example, lysyl tRNA synthetase (KARS). Here, we describe the concepts and experimental methodologies we have used to investigate the influence of phosphorylation on the structure and function of EPRS. We suggest that application of these approaches will help to identify new functional phosphorylation event(s) in other AARSs and elucidate their possible roles in noncanonical activities.	The transcript of the angiogenic factor vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A) is subject to a multitude of stimulus-dependent, posttranscriptional regulatory events, consistent with its unusually long 3' untranslated region. We have recently reported translational readthrough of VEGFA mRNA whereby translating ribosomes traverse the canonical stop codon to a conserved, downstream stop codon, generating VEGF-Ax (&quot;x&quot; for extended), a novel, extended isoform with an additional 22 amino acids appended at the C-terminus. This event is the first vertebrate example of protein-regulated, programmed translational readthrough that generates a protein with a known function. Remarkably, VEGF-Ax exhibits potent antiangiogenic activity, both in vitro and in vivo, thus raising profound clinical implications, particularly with respect to cancer treatment. In this review, we discuss the potential of VEGF-Ax as a therapeutic agent and drug target, as well as its possible role in the failure of, or resistance to, conventional anti-VEGF therapies in many types of cancers.	Among the multiple modes of regulation of gene expression, translational control is arguably the least investigated and understood, and its role in vascular biology and pathobiology is not an exception. Here, we review recent studies that have revealed exciting translational regulatory phenomena and mechanisms involving novel RNA binding proteins and microRNA machinery in vascular biology. From these studies, the importance of translational regulation in angiogenesis, atherosclerosis, and blood pressure maintenance is beginning to emerge. We believe that the recent development of powerful techniques such as ribosome profiling and translating ribosome affinity purification (TRAP) will motivate and facilitate additional research in these areas. 
Fukamachi, Kiyotaka	Biomedical Engineering	30393881	30312660	30074965	29761298	29703578	29616367	29538013	29400088	29365118	29076174	The Virtual Mock Loop, a versatile virtual mock circulation loop, was developed using a lumped-parameter model of the mechanically assisted human circulatory system. Inputs allow specification of a variety of continuous-flow pumps (left, right, or biventricular assist devices) and a total artificial heart that can self-regulate between left and right pump outputs. Hemodynamic inputs were simplified using a disease-based input panel, allowing selection of a combination of cardiovascular disease states, including systolic and diastolic heart failure, stenosis, and/or regurgitation in each of the four valves, and high to low systemic and pulmonary vascular resistance values. The menu-driven output includes a summary of hemodynamic parameters and graphical output of selected flows, pressures, and volumes in the heart's four chambers as well as in the pulmonary artery and aorta. New tools to augment experimental research on implantable heart-assist devices and to increase our understanding of patient-specific pump interactions are in high demand. The purpose of this ongoing study is to demonstrate the use of a system analysis computer simulation to explore and better comprehend the interactions of mechanical circulatory support pumps with a more extensive combination of patient-specific or simulation conditions than can be established by practical experimentation. Usability is an important factor in constructing computer models for research purposes, and among our primary objectives in creating this simulation model were to make it as portable and useful as possible outside the lab environment, by people not involved in the creation of its operational software.	With heart disease increasing worldwide, demand for new minimally invasive techniques and transcatheter technologies to treat structural heart disease is rising. Cardioscopy has long been considered desirable, as it allows direct tissue visualization and intervention to deliver therapy via a closed chest, with real-time fiber-optic imaging of intracardiac structures. Herein, the feasibility of the advanced cardioscopic platform, allowing both transapical and fully percutaneous access is reported. The latter technique, in particular, is believed to represent a milestone in the development of the cardioscope. Cardioscope prototypes were used in 7 bovine models (77.2-101.1 kg) for transapical or percutaneous insertion. Miniature custom-built, water-sealed cameras (diameters: Storz, 7 Fr; Medigus, 1.2 mm) were used. For percutaneous cardiopulmonary bypass, the pulmonary artery was occluded by a balloon catheter (Intraclude, 10.5 Fr, 100 cm) and perfused with a crystalloid solution. Cameras were inserted transapically (n = 4) through the left ventricular apex or percutaneously (n = 5) via the carotid artery. Insertion of the optimized cardioscope devices was feasible via either approach. Intracardiac structures (left ventricle, mitral valve opening/closure, chordal apparatus, aortic valve leaflets, and regurgitation) were visualized clearly and without deformation. Catheter tips were successfully bent &gt;180° inside the left ventricle; rotation and navigation to view various intracardiac structures were feasible in all cases. This study showed the technical feasibility of direct cardioscopic visualization using transapical and percutaneous approaches. This advanced cardioscopic instrumentarium represents a promising platform for future interventions and surgery under direct visualization of the beating heart.	Our new Virtual Mock Loop (VML) is a mathematical model designed to simulate the human cardiovascular system and gauge performance of mechanical circulatory support devices. We aimed to mimic the hemodynamic performance of Cleveland Clinic's self-regulating continuous-flow total artificial heart (CFTAH) via VML and evaluate VML's accuracy versus bench data from our standard mock circulatory loop. The VML reproduced 23 hemodynamic conditions. Systemic/pulmonary vascular resistances and pump rotational speed were set for VML from bench test data. We compared outputs (pump flow, left/right pump pressure rise, normalized pump performance, and atrial pressure difference) of the two methods. Data from pump flow and left pump pressure rise were similar, but right pump pressure rise slightly differed. Left pump normalized pump performance curves were similar. Right pump VML results were within the same performance range indicated by bench tests. The plots of atrial pressure differences of VML versus bench-test data were similar, but slightly differed in the midrange of systemic/pulmonary gradients. Virtual Mock Loop successfully reproduced results from our mock circulatory loop of CFTAH test conditions. The CFTAH's self-regulation feature of right pump performance was also calculated effectively. We foresee using versions of the VML for training, simulating physiologic cardiac conditions, and patient monitoring.	The postoperative care of animals implanted with mechanical circulatory support devices is complex. The standard of care requires continuous monitoring of hemodynamic parameters post implant, wound care, and maintenance of the animal's well-being, but also includes controlling the animal's biomechanics under conditions of continuous restraint and harnessing. In such studies, a harness provides secure fixation of the exteriorized device driveline and pressure lines and aids animal handling (lifting, position adjustment, and assistance with standing up). Harnessing is a key element in large-animal surgery. It affects the animal's conditions, safety, and post-procedure troubleshooting and thus may drastically worsen postoperative outcomes if improperly handled. Here we report a case associated with an unplanned harness replacement in a chronic animal model implanted with the Cleveland Clinic continuous-flow total artificial heart. Inadvertent changes to the harness resulted in posture change caused by muscular atrophy of the calf's spine that had been under long-term harness support.	Heart transplantation in infants and children is an accepted therapy for end-stage heart failure, but donor organ availability is low and always uncertain. Mechanical circulatory support is another standard option, but there is a lack of intracorporeal devices due to size and functional range. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the in vivo performance of our initial prototype of a pediatric continuous-flow total artificial heart (P-CFTAH), comprising a dual pump with one motor and one rotating assembly, supported by a hydrodynamic bearing. In acute studies, the P-CFTAH was implanted in 4 lambs (average weight: 28.7 ± 2.3 kg) via a median sternotomy under cardiopulmonary bypass. Pulmonary and systemic pump performance parameters were recorded. The experiments showed good anatomical fit and easy implantation, with an average aortic cross-clamp time of 98 ± 18 minutes. Baseline hemodynamics were stable in all 4 animals (pump speed: 3.4 ± 0.2 krpm; pump flow: 2.1 ± 0.9 liters/min; power: 3.0 ± 0.8 W; arterial pressure: 68 ± 10 mm Hg; left and right atrial pressures: 6 ± 1 mm Hg, for both). Any differences between left and right atrial pressures were maintained within the intended limit of ±5 mm Hg over a wide range of ratios of systemic-to-pulmonary vascular resistance (0.7 to 12), with and without pump-speed modulation. Pump-speed modulation was successfully performed to create arterial pulsation. This initial P-CFTAH prototype met the proposed requirements for self-regulation, performance, and pulse modulation.	The purpose of this study was to assess the smallest possible body sizes of patients in whom the Cleveland Clinic continuous-flow total artificial heart for adult (CFTAH) and pediatric configurations (P-CFTAH) can fit. One of the most critical dimensions is the vertebra-to-sternum distance at the junction of the right atrium to the inferior vena cava (V-S distance). Our previous CFTAH anatomical fitting study suggested that the CFTAH would fit patients of V-S distance ≥ 7.5 cm and the P-CFTAH of V-S distance ≥ 5.25 cm (70% of 7.5 cm). To confirm this, we assessed the relationship between body surface area (BSA) and V-S distance in 15 adult patients (BSA 1.86-2.62 m<sup>2</sup>) and 31 pediatric patients (BSA 0.17-1.80 m<sup>2</sup>) whose computed tomography scans were available. We found a highly significant correlation between BSA and V-S distance (p &lt; 1.0 × 10<sup>-25</sup>). It appears that the CFTAH will fit in most patients with BSA ≥ 1.0 m<sup>2</sup> (corresponding height of ≥ 130 cm and age of 9 years) and the P-CFTAH in patients with BSA ≥ 0.3 m<sup>2</sup> (corresponding height of ≥ 55 cm and age of 1 month). Further anatomical fitting studies are needed to evaluate the two pump models inside human chests to determine the smallest patient size/critical dimensions and device port configurations.	Control of mechanical circulatory support pump output typically requires that pressure-regulating functions be accomplished by active control of the speed or geometry of the device, with feedback from pressure or flow sensors. This article presents a different design approach, with a pressure-regulating device as the core design feature, allowing the essential control function of regulating pressure to be directly programmed into the hydromechanical design. We show the step-by-step transformation of a pressure-regulating device into a continuous-flow total artificial heart that passively balances left and right circulations without the need for pressure and flow sensors. In addition, we discuss a ventricular assist device that prevents backflow in the event of power interruption and also dynamically interacts with residual ventricle function to preserve pulsatility.	Continuous-flow (CF) left ventricular assist devices (LVADs) are widely used to treat end-stage heart failure. Despite substantial improvement in clinical results, numerous complications remain associated with this technology. Worsening renal function is one, associated with morbidity and mortality in patients supported by CF LVADs. The effects of CF LVAD support on renal function have been investigated since the mid-1990s by many research groups. We review the current status of LVAD therapy, experimental results regarding the effects of types of flow generated by LVADs on renal function and pathology, changes in renal function after LVAD implant, the influence of renal function on outcomes, and risk factors for renal dysfunction post implant. This information was obtained through online databases and direct extraction of single studies. Immediately after CF LVAD implantation, renal function improves temporarily as patients recover from the kidneys' previously low perfusion and congestive state. However, many studies have shown that this initially recovered renal function gradually declines during long-term CF LVAD support. Although it is known that CF LVAD support adversely affects renal function over the long term, just how it does has not yet been clearly defined in terms of clinical symptoms or signs.	Mechanical circulatory support has become standard therapy for adult patients with end-stage heart failure; however, in paediatric patients with congenital heart disease, the options for chronic mechanical circulatory support are limited to paracorporeal devices or off-label use of devices intended for implantation in adults. Congenital heart disease and cardiomyopathy often involve both the left and right ventricles; in such cases, heart transplantation, a biventricular assist device or a total artificial heart is needed to adequately sustain both pulmonary and systemic circulations. We aimed to evaluate the in vitro performance of the initial prototype of our paediatric continuous-flow total artificial heart. The paediatric continuous-flow total artificial heart pump was downsized from the adult continuous-flow total artificial heart configuration by a scale factor of 0.70 (1/3 of total volume) to enable implantation in infants. System performance of this prototype was evaluated using the continuous-flow total artificial heart mock loop set to mimic paediatric circulation. We generated maps of pump performance and atrial pressure differences over a wide range of systemic vascular resistance/pulmonary vascular resistance and pump speeds. Performance data indicated left pump flow range of 0.4-4.7 l/min at 100 mmHg delta pressure. The left/right atrial pressure difference was maintained within ±5 mmHg with systemic vascular resistance/pulmonary vascular resistance ratios between 1.4 and 35, with/without pump speed modulation, verifying expected passive self-regulation of atrial pressure balance. The paediatric continuous-flow total artificial heart prototype met design requirements for self-regulation and performance; in vivo pump performance studies are ongoing.	The VentriFlo True Pulse Pump (Design Mentor, Inc., Pelham, NH, USA) is the first blood pump designed to mimic human arterial waveforms in a standard oxygenation circuit. Our aim was to demonstrate the feasibility and safety of this pump in preparation for future studies to determine possible clinical advantages. We studied four piglets (41.4-46.2 kg): three with an implanted VentriFlo pulsatile pump and one with the nonpulsatile ROTAFLOW pump (MAQUET Holding B.V. &amp; Co. KG, Rastatt, Germany) as a control. Hemodynamics was monitored during 6-h cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) support and for 2 h after weaning off CPB. The VentriFlo demonstrated physiologic arterial waveforms with arterial pulse pressure of 24.6 ± 5.7 mm Hg. Pump flows (2.0 ± 0.1 L/min in ROTAFLOW; 1.9 ± 0.1 L/min in VentriFlo) and plasma free hemoglobin levels (27.9 ± 12.5 mg/dL in ROTAFLOW; 28.5 ± 14.2 mg/dL in VentriFlo) were also comparable, but systemic O2 extraction (as measured by arterial minus venous O2 saturation) registered slightly higher with the VentriFlo (63.2 ± 6.9%) than the ROTAFLOW (55.4 ± 6.5%). Histological findings showed no evidence of ischemic changes or thromboembolism. This pilot study demonstrated that the VentriFlo system generated pulsatile flow and maintained adequate perfusion of all organs during prolonged CPB.
Gassman, Jennifer	Quantitative Health Sciences	29212839	17591527	30775619	30006417	29976600	29870977	29212839	27927600	26335102	27516235	The optimal BP target for patients receiving hemodialysis is unknown. We randomized 126 hypertensive patients on hemodialysis to a standardized predialysis systolic BP of 110-140 mmHg (intensive arm) or 155-165 mmHg (standard arm). The primary objectives were to assess feasibility and safety and inform the design of a full-scale trial. A secondary objective was to assess changes in left ventricular mass. Median follow-up was 365 days. In the standard arm, the 2-week moving average systolic BP did not change significantly during the intervention period, but in the intensive arm, systolic BP decreased from 160 mmHg at baseline to 143 mmHg at 4.5 months. From months 4-12, the mean separation in systolic BP between arms was 12.9 mmHg. Four deaths occurred in the intensive arm and one death occurred in the standard arm. The incidence rate ratios for the intensive compared with the standard arm (95% confidence intervals) were 1.18 (0.40 to 3.33), 1.61 (0.87 to 2.97), and 3.09 (0.96 to 8.78) for major adverse cardiovascular events, hospitalizations, and vascular access thrombosis, respectively. The intensive and standard arms had similar median changes (95% confidence intervals) in left ventricular mass of -0.84 (-17.1 to 10.0) g and 1.4 (-11.6 to 10.4) g, respectively. Although we identified a possible safety signal, the small size and short duration of the trial prevent definitive conclusions. Considering the high risk for major adverse cardiovascular events in patients receiving hemodialysis, a full-scale trial is needed to assess potential benefits of intensive hypertension control in this population.	African Americans are at increased risk of kidney failure caused by hypertension. The primary objective of the African American Study of Kidney Disease and Hypertension (AASK) Cohort Study is to identify risk factors for progressive kidney disease in African Americans with hypertensive chronic kidney disease in the setting of recommended antihypertensive therapy. On completion of the AASK Trial, a randomized, double-blind, 3 x 2 factorial trial, participants who had not yet begun dialysis treatment or undergone kidney transplantation were invited to enroll in a prospective Cohort Study. Cohort Study participants received recommended antihypertensive drug therapy, including high rates of angiotensin-converting enzyme-inhibitor (73%) and angiotensin receptor blocker (10%) use with a blood pressure goal of less than 130/80 mm Hg. Baseline clinical and demographic characteristics are described separately at the baseline of the AASK Trial and Cohort Study. Of 1,094 persons enrolled in the AASK Trial (June 1995 to September 2001; mean age, 55 years; 61% men), 691 enrolled in the AASK Cohort Study (April 2002 to present), 299 died or reached dialysis therapy or transplantation, and 104 declined to participate in the AASK Cohort Study. Mean baseline systolic/diastolic blood pressures were 150/96 mm Hg in the Trial and 136/81 mm Hg in the Cohort Study. Cohort Study participants had greater serum creatinine levels at the start of the Cohort Study (2.3 versus 1.8 mg/dL [203 versus 159 micromol/L]), corresponding to an estimated glomerular filtration rate of 43.8 versus 50.3 mL/min/1.73 m2 (0.73 versus 0.84 mL/s/1.73 m2), than Trial participants and greater urine protein-creatinine ratios (0.38 versus 0.19 mg/mg, respectively). Individuals who were eligible, but declined to participate in the Cohort Study, had greater systolic blood pressure, but similar kidney function. Some parameters, such as iothalamate glomerular filtration rate, urinary albumin level, echocardiogram, and ambulatory blood pressure, were not performed in both the Trial and the Cohort Study, limiting the ability to evaluate changes in these parameters over time. Despite well-controlled blood pressure in the AASK Trial, Cohort Study participants still had evidence of progressive chronic kidney disease. Thus, the AASK Cohort Study is well positioned to address its primary objective.	Depression is common but underrecognized in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD), especially among racial/ethnic minorities. We examined the association between depressive symptoms and all-cause mortality (including deaths before and after end-stage renal disease [ESRD]) and whether antidepressant use impacts this association, overall, and by race/ethnicity. We ascertained whether the presence of depressive symptoms, defined by a Beck Depression Inventory II (BDI) score of &gt;14 at cohort enrollment, was associated with all-cause mortality (before or after ESRD) among study participants of the Chronic Renal Insufficient Cohort (CRIC) overall and by race/ethnicity. Models were adjusted for socioeconomic factors, baseline CKD severity, time-updated comorbid conditions, and time-updated antidepressant use. Confirmatory analyses were performed among African American Study of Kidney Disease and Hypertension (AASK) participants. Among 3739 CRIC participants, 16.3% had a baseline BDI of &gt;14; 18.2% reported antidepressant use. Crude mortality rate was 3.16 per 100 person-years during 6.8 years of median follow-up. Baseline BDI &gt;14 was independently associated with higher risk of all-cause mortality (adjusted hazard ratio [aHR]: 1.27; 95% confidence interval: 1.07-1.52) without attenuation by antidepressant use. Differences among white and black individuals were noted (Pinteraction= 0.02) but not among white versus Hispanic individuals (Pinteraction = 0.43) or black versus Hispanic individuals (Pinteraction = 0.22). Depressive symptoms were associated with higher mortality among white individuals (aHR: 1.66; 1.21-2.28), but not Hispanic individuals (aHR: 1.47; 0.95-2.28) or black individuals (aHR: 1.06; 0.82-1.37). Similar results were noted among 611 AASK participants (aHR: 0.99; 0.69-1.42). The presence of depressive symptoms is a risk factor for all-cause mortality among patients with mild-moderate CKD, particularly among white individuals. Further studies are needed to understand the heterogeneity in the response to the presence of depressive symptoms by race.	During intensive BP lowering, acute declines in renal function are common, thought to be hemodynamic, and potentially reversible. We previously showed that acute declines in renal function ≥20% during intensive BP lowering were associated with higher risk of ESRD. Here, we determined whether acute declines in renal function during intensive BP lowering were associated with mortality risk among 1660 participants of the African American Study of Kidney Disease and Hypertension and the Modification of Diet in Renal Disease Trial. We used Cox models to examine the association between percentage decline in eGFR (&lt;5%, 5% to &lt;20%, or ≥20%) between randomization and months 3-4 of the trials (period of therapy intensification) and death. In adjusted analyses, compared with a &lt;5% eGFR decline in the usual BP arm (reference), a 5% to &lt;20% eGFR decline in the intensive BP arm was associated with a survival benefit (hazard ratio [HR], 0.77; 95% confidence interval [95% CI], 0.62 to 0.96), but a 5% to &lt;20% eGFR decline in the usual BP arm was not (HR, 1.01; 95% CI, 0.81 to 1.26; P&lt;0.05 for the interaction between intensive and usual BP arms for mortality risk). A ≥20% eGFR decline was not associated with risk of death in the intensive BP arm (HR, 1.18; 95% CI, 0.86 to 1.62), but it was associated with a higher risk of death in the usual BP arm (HR, 1.40; 95% CI, 1.04 to 1.89) compared with the reference group. Intensive BP lowering was associated with a mortality benefit only if declines in eGFR were &lt;20%.	Ambulatory BP is increasingly recognized as a better measure of the risk for adverse outcomes related to hypertension, an important comorbidity in patients with CKD. Varying definitions of white-coat and masked hypertension have made it difficult to evaluate differences in prevalence of these BP patterns across CKD cohorts. The International Database of Ambulatory BP in Renal Patients collaborative group established a large database of demographic, clinical, and ambulatory BP data from patients with CKD from cohorts in Italy, Spain, the Chronic Renal Insufficiency Cohort (CRIC) and the African American Study of Kidney Disease and Hypertension Cohort Study (AASK) in the United States, and the CKD Japan Cohort (CKD-JAC). Participants (n=7518) with CKD were included in the present analyses. Cutoffs for defining controlled BP were 140/90 mm Hg for clinic and 130/80 mm Hg for 24-hour ambulatory BP. Among those with controlled clinic BP, compared with CKD-JAC, AASK participants were more likely to have masked hypertension (prevalence ratio [PR], 1.21; 95% confidence interval [95% CI], 1.04 to 1.41) whereas CRIC (PR, 0.82; 0.72 to 0.94), Italian (PR, 0.73; 0.56 to 0.95), and Spanish participants (PR, 0.75; 0.64 to 0.88) were less likely. Among those with elevated clinic BP, AASK participants were more likely to have sustained hypertension (PR, 1.22; 95% CI, 1.13 to 1.32) whereas Italian (PR, 0.78; 0.70 to 0.87) and Spanish participants (PR, 0.89; 0.82 to 0.96) were less likely, although CRIC participants had similar prevalence as CKD-JAC. Prevalence of masked and sustained hypertension was elevated in males, patients with diabetes, participants on four or more antihypertensives, and those with moderate-to-severe proteinuria. In a large, multinational database, the prevalence of masked and sustained hypertension varied across cohorts independent of important comorbidities.	Intradialytic hypertension (IDH), or paradoxical rise in blood pressure (BP) during hemodialysis (HD) is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. The association between IDH and increased left ventricular mass (LVM), a well-known risk factor for adverse cardiovascular outcomes in HD patients, has not been studied. The aim of our study is to evaluate the cross-sectional association of intradialytic change in BP with cardiac structure and function measured by cardiac MRI in hypertensive HD patients enrolled in the multi-center Blood Pressure in Dialysis (BID) clinical trial. Participants in the BID study were categorized into 3 groups based on average change (Δ) in systolic blood pressure (SBP) (post-HD SBP minus pre-HD SBP) during HD over a 1 month period: group 1 - patients with an increase in SBP ≥ 10mm Hg during HD (IDH); group 2 -patients with SBP decrease of greater ≥10mm Hg during HD; group 3 - patients with SBP increase or decrease by &lt; 10mm Hg during HD. LVM index (LVMI) was measured using cardiac MRI, which were centrally read. Baseline characteristics were compared in the 3 groups and multivariable regression models were fitted for the adjusted association of IDH with LVMI. Among the 80 participants, 7 (8.8%) had IDH and had average Δ SBP 17.0 ± 10.1 mmHg during HD. Patients with IDH were less likely to be diabetic, had lower pre-dialysis SBP and lower percent interdialytic weight gain as compared to the other 2 groups (p=0.02, p&lt; 0.001 and p=0.02 respectively). In multivariable regression analyses, IDH was significantly associated with LVMI (adjusted mean difference relative to SBP decreased group [95% confidence interval (CI)] = 12.5 [3.6, 21.5], p=0.01) after adjusting for age, sex, diabetes, IDWG%, pre-HD SBP and beta blocker use. Every 1 mm rise in ΔSBP during HD was associated with 0.2 g/m2 increase in LVMI in adjusted models (p=0.04). IDH is independently associated with higher LVMI in hypertensive HD patients and may contribute to increased cardiovascular events.	The optimal BP target for patients receiving hemodialysis is unknown. We randomized 126 hypertensive patients on hemodialysis to a standardized predialysis systolic BP of 110-140 mmHg (intensive arm) or 155-165 mmHg (standard arm). The primary objectives were to assess feasibility and safety and inform the design of a full-scale trial. A secondary objective was to assess changes in left ventricular mass. Median follow-up was 365 days. In the standard arm, the 2-week moving average systolic BP did not change significantly during the intervention period, but in the intensive arm, systolic BP decreased from 160 mmHg at baseline to 143 mmHg at 4.5 months. From months 4-12, the mean separation in systolic BP between arms was 12.9 mmHg. Four deaths occurred in the intensive arm and one death occurred in the standard arm. The incidence rate ratios for the intensive compared with the standard arm (95% confidence intervals) were 1.18 (0.40 to 3.33), 1.61 (0.87 to 2.97), and 3.09 (0.96 to 8.78) for major adverse cardiovascular events, hospitalizations, and vascular access thrombosis, respectively. The intensive and standard arms had similar median changes (95% confidence intervals) in left ventricular mass of -0.84 (-17.1 to 10.0) g and 1.4 (-11.6 to 10.4) g, respectively. Although we identified a possible safety signal, the small size and short duration of the trial prevent definitive conclusions. Considering the high risk for major adverse cardiovascular events in patients receiving hemodialysis, a full-scale trial is needed to assess potential benefits of intensive hypertension control in this population.	Although APOL1 high-risk genotype partially accounts for the increased susceptibility of blacks to chronic kidney disease (CKD), whether APOL1 associates differentially with mortality risk remains controversial. Here we evaluate the association between APOL1 genotype and risk of death and determine whether APOL1 status modifies the association between strict versus usual blood pressure control and mortality risk. We performed a retrospective analysis of the African American Study of Kidney Disease and Hypertension trial that randomized black participants with CKD to strict versus usual blood pressure control from 1995 to 2001. This included 682 participants with known APOL1 genotype (157 with high-risk genotype) previously assigned to either strict (mean arterial pressure [MAP] 92 mm Hg or less) versus usual blood pressure control (MAP 102-107 mm Hg) during the trial. During a median follow-up of 14.5 years, risk of death did not differ between individuals with high- versus low-risk APOL1 genotypes (unadjusted hazard ratio 1.00 [95% confidence interval 0.76-1.33]). However, a significant interaction was detected between the APOL1 risk group and blood pressure control strategy. In the APOL1 high-risk group, the risk of death was 42% lower comparing strict versus usual blood pressure control (0.58 [0.35-0.97]). In the APOL1 low-risk group, the risk of death comparing strict versus usual blood pressure control was not significantly different (1.09 [0.84-1.43]). Thus, strict blood pressure control during CKD associates with a lower risk of death in blacks with the high-risk CKD APOL1 genotype. Knowledge of APOL1 status could inform selection of blood pressure treatment targets in black CKD patients.	Recent pre-clinical studies have shown that complement activation contributes to glomerular and tubular injury in experimental FSGS. Although complement proteins are detected in the glomeruli of some patients with FSGS, it is not known whether this is due to complement activation or whether the proteins are simply trapped in sclerotic glomeruli. We measured complement activation fragments in the plasma and urine of patients with primary FSGS to determine whether complement activation is part of the disease process. Plasma and urine samples from patients with biopsy-proven FSGS who participated in the FSGS Clinical Trial were analyzed. We identified 19 patients for whom samples were available from weeks 0, 26, 52 and 78. The results for these FSGS patients were compared to results in samples from 10 healthy controls, 10 patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD), 20 patients with vasculitis, and 23 patients with lupus nephritis. Longitudinal control of proteinuria and estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR). Levels of the complement fragments Ba, Bb, C4a, and sC5b-9 in plasma and urine. Plasma and urine Ba, C4a, sC5b-9 were significantly higher in FSGS patients at the time of diagnosis than in the control groups. Plasma Ba levels inversely correlated with the eGFR at the time of diagnosis and at the end of the study. Plasma and urine Ba levels at the end of the study positively correlated with the level of proteinuria, the primary outcome of the study. Limited number of patients with samples from all time-points. The complement system is activated in patients with primary FSGS, and elevated levels of plasma Ba correlate with more severe disease. Measurement of complement fragments may identify a subset of patients in whom the complement system is activated. Further investigations are needed to confirm our findings and to determine the prognostic significance of complement activation in patients with FSGS.	We recently showed an association between strict BP control and lower mortality risk during two decades of follow-up of prior participants in the Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (MDRD) trial. Here, we determined the risk of ESRD and mortality during extended follow-up of the African American Study of Kidney Disease and Hypertension (AASK) trial. We linked 1067 former AASK participants with CKD previously randomized to strict or usual BP control (mean arterial pressure ≤92 mmHg or 102-107 mmHg, respectively) to the US Renal Data System and Social Security Death Index; 397 patients had ESRD and 475 deaths occurred during a median follow-up of 14.4 years from 1995 to 2012. Compared with the usual BP arm, the strict BP arm had unadjusted and adjusted relative risks of ESRD of 0.92 (95% confidence interval [95% CI], 0.75 to 1.12) and 0.95 (95% CI, 0.78 to 1.16; P=0.64), respectively, and unadjusted and adjusted relative risks of death of 0.92 (95% CI, 0.77 to 1.10) and 0.81 (95% CI, 0.68 to 0.98; P=0.03), respectively. In meta-analyses of individual-level data from the MDRD and the AASK trials, unadjusted relative risk of ESRD was 0.88 (95% CI, 0.78 to 1.00) and unadjusted relative risk of death was 0.87 (95% CI, 0.76 to 0.99) for strict versus usual BP arms. Our findings suggest that, during long-term follow-up, strict BP control does not delay the onset of ESRD but may reduce the relative risk of death in CKD.
Ghosh, Chaitali	Biomedical Engineering	30414085	30264400	28199000	28127491	27312874	25656284	23865846	22426401	21568937	21294720	Death-associated protein kinase (DAPK) is a key player in various cell death signaling pathways. Prolonged seizures induce neuronal stress; thus, we studied DAPK expression in resected brain tissues from patients with refractory epilepsy and the pathophysiological relevance of neurovascular DAPK. We used brain resections from temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), tumor (BT), arteriovenous malformation (AVM), and autopsy, and isolated human endothelial cells (EPI-ECs) and glial cells (EPI-Astro) from epileptic brains compared to control brain endothelial cells (HBMECs) and astrocytes. DAPK and phosphorylated DAPK (p-DAPK) expression was evaluated by immunohistochemistry and western blot. Subcellular localization of DAPK in epileptic brain was explored; DAPK mRNA/protein levels in EPI-ECs/EPI-Astro were evaluated. We assessed DAPK localization with hypoxic inducible factor (HIF-1α) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in epilepsy, BT, and AVM. We found DAPK overexpression across neurons, microcapillaries, and astrocytes in TLE vs controls; DAPK and p-DAPK levels significantly increased only in microsomal fractions of epileptic brain. DAPK mRNA remained unchanged, although increased DAPK and p-DAPK protein expression was observed in EPI-ECs. DAPK inhibition reduced p-DAPK, HIF-1α, and VEGF expression, but increased cytotoxicity and decreased cell viability in EPI-ECs and EPI-astro vs. controls. DAPK staining in TLE resembled BT and AVM, with predominant DAPK/p-DAPK expression in neurons and vasculature. Taken together, these findings suggest DAPK could be a potential molecular target in neuronal death and vascular changes in epilepsy. Increased brain endothelial and astrocytic DAPK in epilepsy, identified for the first time, may have relevance to angiogenesis, hypoxia, and cell survival in pathological conditions.	Nuclear receptors and cytochrome P450 (CYP) regulate hepatic metabolism of several drugs. Nuclear receptors are expressed at the neurovascular unit of patients with drug-resistant epilepsy. We studied whether glucocorticoid receptor (GR) silencing or inhibition in human epileptic brain endothelial cells (EPI-ECs) functionally impacts drug bioavailability across an in vitro model of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) by CYP-multidrug transporter (multidrug resistance protein 1, MDR1) mechanisms. Surgically resected brain specimens from patients with drug-resistant epilepsy, primary EPI-ECs, and control human brain microvascular endothelial cells (HBMECs) were used. Expression of GR, pregnane X receptor, CYP3A4, and MDR1 was analyzed pre- and post-GR silencing in EPI-ECs. Endothelial cells were co-cultured with astrocytes and seeded in an in vitro flow-based BBB model (DIV-BBB). Alternatively, the GR inhibitor mifepristone was added to the EPI-EC DIV-BBB. Integrity of the BBB was monitored by measuring transendothelial electrical resistance. Cell viability was assessed by glucose-lactate levels. Permeability of [<sup>3</sup> H]sucrose and [<sup>14</sup> C]phenytoin was quantified. CYP function was determined by measuring resorufin formation and oxcarbazepine (OXC) metabolism. Silencing and inhibition of GR in EPI-ECs resulted in decreased pregnane X receptor, CYP3A4, and MDR1 expression. GR silencing or inhibition did not affect BBB properties in vitro, as transendothelial electrical resistance and Psucrose were unaltered, and glucose metabolism was maintained. GR EPI-EC silencing or inhibition led to (1) increased Pphenytoin BBB permeability as compared to control; (2) decreased CYP function, indirectly evaluated by resorufin formation; (3) improved OXC bioavailability with increased abluminal (brain-side) OXC levels as compared to control. Our results suggest that modulating GR expression in EPI-ECs at the BBB modifies drug metabolism and penetration by a mechanism encompassing P450 and efflux transporters. The latter could be exploited for future drug design and to overcome pharmacoresistance.	Recent evidence suggests a metabolic contribution of cytochrome P450 enzymes (CYPs) to the drug-resistant phenotype in human epilepsy. However, the upstream molecular regulators of CYP in the epileptic brain remain understudied. We therefore investigated the expression and function of pregnane xenobiotic (PXR) and glucocorticoid (GR) nuclear receptors in endothelial cells established from post-epilepsy surgery brain samples. PXR/GR localization was evaluated by immunohistochemistry in specimens from subjects who underwent temporal lobe resections to relieve drug-resistant seizures. We used primary cultures of endothelial cells obtained from epileptic brain tissues (EPI-ECs; n = 8), commercially available human brain microvascular endothelial cells (HBMECs; n = 8), and human hepatocytes (n = 3). PXR/GR messenger RNA (mRNA) levels in brain ECs was initially determined by complementary DNA (cDNA) microarrays. The expression of PXR/GR proteins was quantified by Western blot. PXR and GR silencing was performed in EPI-ECs (n = 4), and the impact on downstream CYP expression was determined. PXR/GR expression was detected by immunofluorescence in ECs and neurons in the human temporal lobe samples analyzed. Elevated mRNA and protein levels of PXR and GR were found in EPI-ECs versus control HBMECs. Hepatocytes, used as a positive control, displayed the highest levels of PXR/GR expression. We confirmed expression of PXR/GR in cytoplasmic-nuclear subcellular fractions, with a significant increase of PXR/GR in EPI-ECs versus controls. CYP3A4, CYP2C9, and CYP2E1 were overexpressed in EPI-ECs versus control, whereas CYP2D6 and CYP2C19 were downregulated or absent in EPI-ECs. GR silencing in EPI-ECs led to decreased CYP3A4, CYP2C9, and PXR expression. PXR silencing in EPI-ECs resulted in the specific downregulation of CYP3A4 expression. Our results indicate increased PXR and GR in primary ECs derived from human epileptic brains. PXR or GR may be responsible for a local drug brain metabolism sustained by abnormal CYP regulation.	Sterile neuroinflammation is essential for the proper brain development and tissue repair. However, uncontrolled neuroinflammation plays a major role in the pathogenesis of various disease processes. The endogenous intracellular molecules so called damage-associated molecular patterns or alarmins or damage signals that are released by activated or necrotic cells are thought to play a crucial role in initiating an immune response. Sterile inflammatory response that occurs in Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), stroke, hemorrhage, epilepsy, or traumatic brain injury (TBI) creates a vicious cycle of unrestrained inflammation, driving progressive neurodegeneration. Neuroinflammation is a key mechanism in the progression (e.g., AD and PD) or secondary injury development (e.g., stroke, hemorrhage, stress, and TBI) of multiple brain conditions. Hence, it provides an opportunity for the therapeutic intervention to prevent progressive tissue damage and loss of function. The key for developing anti-neuroinflammatory treatment is to minimize the detrimental and neurotoxic effects of inflammation while promoting the beneficial and neurotropic effects, thereby creating ideal conditions for regeneration and repair. This review outlines how inflammation is involved in the pathogenesis of major nonpathogenic neuroinflammatory conditions and discusses the complex response of glial cells to damage signals. In addition, emerging experimental anti-neuroinflammatory drug treatment strategies are discussed.	Over the past decades, the significance of cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes has expanded beyond their role as peripheral drug metabolizers in the liver and gut. CYP enzymes are also functionally active at the neurovascular interface. CYP expression is modulated by disease states, impacting cellular functions, detoxification, and reactivity to toxic stimuli and brain drug biotransformation. Unveiling the physiological and molecular complexity of brain P450 enzymes will improve our understanding of the mechanisms underlying brain drug availability, pharmacological efficacy, and neurotoxic adverse effects from pharmacotherapy targeting brain disorders.	Drug toxicity is a hurdle to drug development and to clinical translation of basic research. Antiepileptic drugs such as carbamazepine (CBZ) and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors such as sertraline (SRT) are commonly co-prescribed to patients with epilepsy and comorbid depression. Because SRT may interfere with cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzyme activity and CYPs have been implicated in the conversion of CBZ to reactive cytotoxic metabolites, we investigated in vitro models to determine whether SRT affects the neurotoxic potential of CBZ and the mechanisms involved. Human fetal brain-derived dopaminergic neurons, human brain microvascular endothelial cells (HBMECs), and embryonic kidney (HEK) cells were used to evaluate cytotoxicity of CBZ and SRT individually and in combination. Nitrite and glutathione (GSH) levels were measured with drug exposure. To validate the role of CYP3A4 in causing neurotoxicity, drug metabolism was compared to cell death in HEK CYP3A4 overexpressed and cells pretreated with the CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole. In all cellular systems tested, exposure to CBZ (127 μM) or SRT (5 μM) alone caused negligible cytotoxicity. By contrast CBZ, tested at a much lower concentration (17 μM) in combination with SRT (5 μM), produced prominent cytotoxicity within 15 min exposure. In neurons and HBMECs, cytotoxicity was associated with increased nitrite levels, suggesting involvement of free radicals as a pathogenetic mechanism. Pretreatment of HBMECs with reduced GSH or with the GSH precursor N-acetyl-L-cysteine prevented cytotoxic response. In HEK cells, the cytotoxic response to the CBZ + SRT combination correlated with the rate of CBZ biotransformation and production of 2-hydroxy CBZ, further suggesting a causative role of reactive metabolites. In the same system, cytotoxicity was potentiated by overexpression of CYP3A4, and prevented by CYP3A4 inhibitor. These results demonstrate an unexpected neurotoxic interaction between CBZ and SRT, apparently related to increased CYP3A4-mediated production of reactive CBZ metabolites. The potential clinical implications of these findings are discussed.	Brain drug bioavailability is regulated by the blood-brain barrier (BBB). It was recently suggested that cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes could act in concert with multidrug transporter proteins to regulate drug penetration and distribution into the diseased brain. The possibility that phase II metabolic enzymes could be expressed in the epileptic brain has been not evaluated. Phase II enzymes are involved in the metabolism of common antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). Phase II enzyme UGT1A4 brain expression was evaluated in temporal lobe resections from patients with epilepsy. UGT1A4 expression was determined by western blot and immunocytochemistry in primary cultures of human drug-resistant brain endothelial human brain epileptic endothelial cells (EPI-EC)s and commercially available control cells human brain microvascular endothelial cells (HBMECs). Lack of DNA condensation measured by 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) was used as a surrogate marker of cell viability and was correlated to UGT1A4 expression high performance liquid chromatography ultraviolet detection (HPLC-UV) was used to quantify lamotrigine metabolism by EPI-EC and HBMEC. The appearance of the specific lamotrigine metabolite, 2-n glucuronide (MET-1), was also evaluated. Lamotrigine and MET-1 levels were measured in selected surgical brain and matched blood samples. UGT1A4 expression was observed in BBB endothelial cells and neurons. Our quantification study revealed variable levels of UGT1A4 expression across the brain specimens analyzed. Neurons devoid of UGT1A4 expression displayed nuclear DAPI condensation, a sign of cellular distress. UGT1A4 overexpression in EPI-EC, as compared to HBMEC, was reflected by a proportional increase in lamotrigine metabolism. The lamotrigine metabolite, MET-1, was formed in vitro by EPI-EC and, to a lesser extent, by HBMEC. HPLC-UV measurements of brain and blood samples obtained from patients receiving lamotrigine prior to surgery revealed the presence of lamotrigine and its metabolites in the brain. These initial results suggest the presence of a phase II enzyme in the epileptic brain. Further studies are required to fully describe the pattern of brain UGT1A4 expression in relation to clinical variables and drug resistance.	Drugs and their metabolites often produce undesirable effects. These may be due to a number of mechanisms, including biotransformation by P450 enzymes which are not exclusively expressed by hepatocytes but also by endothelial cells in brain from epileptics. The possibility thus exists that the potency of systemically administered central nervous system therapeutics can be modulated by a metabolic blood-brain barrier (BBB). Surgical brain specimens and blood samples (ex vivo) were obtained from drug-resistant epileptic subjects receiving the antiepileptic drug carbamazepine prior to temporal lobectomies. An in vitro blood-brain barrier model was then established using primary cell culture derived from the same brain specimens. The pattern of carbamazepine (CBZ) metabolism was evaluated in vitro and ex vivo using high performance liquid chromatography-mass spectroscopy. Accelerated mass spectroscopy was used to identify (14)C metabolites deriving from the parent (14)C-carbamazepine. Under our experimental conditions carbamazepine levels could not be detected in drug resistant epileptic brain ex situ; low levels of carbamazepine were detected in the brain side of the in vitro BBB established with endothelial cells derived from the same patients. Four carbamazepine-derived fractions were detected in brain samples in vitro and ex vivo. HPLC-accelerated mass spectroscopy confirmed that these signals derived from (14)C-carbamazepine administered as parental drug. Carbamazepine 10, 11 epoxide (CBZ-EPO) and 10, 11-dihydro-10, 11-dihydrooxy-carbamazepine (DiOH-CBZ) were also detected in the fractions analyzed. (14)C-enriched fractions were subsequently analyzed by mass spectrometry to reveal micromolar concentrations of quinolinic acid (QA). Remarkably, the disappearance of carbamazepine-epoxide (at a rate of 5% per hour) was comparable to the rate of quinolinic acid production (3% per hour). This suggested that quinolinic acid may be a result of carbamazepine metabolism. Quinolinic acid was not detected in the brain of patients who received antiepileptic drugs other than carbamazepine prior to surgery or in brain endothelial cultures obtained from a control patient. Our data suggest that a drug resistant BBB not only impedes drug access to the brain but may also allow the formation of neurotoxic metabolites.	Drug penetration into the central nervous system (CNS) is controlled by the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Even though a number of strategies to circumvent the BBB and to improve drug access have been developed, drug resistance in CNS diseases remains an unmet clinical problem. We here review the mechanisms by which a healthy or pathological BBB influences drug distribution in the brain, with emphasis on the role of P450 metabolic enzymes and multi-drug transporter (MDT) proteins. In addition to the classic hepatic and gut biotransformation pathways, CNS expression of P450 enzymes may bear pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic significance exerting a metabolic activity and transforming parent drugs into specific products. We propose these mechanisms to play a major role in CNS drug resistant pathologies including refractory forms of epilepsy. Changes in the cerebrovascular hemodynamic conditions can affect expression of P450 enzymes and MDT proteins. This should be taken into account when developing in vitro experimental approaches to reproduce the physiological or pathological properties of the BBB. Finally, a link between P450 and MDT expression in the diseased brain and cell survival is discussed.	Compelling evidence supports the presence of P450 enzymes (CYPs) in the central nervous system (CNS). However, little information is available on the localization and function of CYPs in the drug-resistant epileptic brain. We have evaluated the pattern of expression of the specific enzyme CYP3A4 and studied its co-localization with MDR1. We also determined whether an association exists between CYP3A4 expression and cell survival. Brain specimens were obtained from eight patients undergoing resection to relieve drug-resistant seizures or to remove a cavernous angioma. Each specimen was partitioned for either immunostaining or primary culture of human endothelial cells and astrocytes. Immunostaining was performed using anti-CYP3A4, MDR1, GFAP, or NeuN antibodies. High performance liquid chromatography-ultraviolet (HPLC-UV) analysis was used to quantify carbamazepine (CBZ) metabolism by these cells. CYP3A4 expression was correlated to DAPI) condensation, a marker of cell viability. Human embryonic kidney (HEK) cells were transfected with 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (CYP3A4 to further evaluate the link between CYP3A4 levels, CBZ metabolism, and cell viability. CYP3A4 was expressed by blood-brain barrier (BBB) endothelial cells and by the majority of neurons (75 ± 10%). Fluorescent immunostaining showed coexpression of CYP3A4 and MDR1 in endothelial cells and neurons. CYP3A4 expression inversely correlated with DAPI nuclear condensation. CYP3A4 overexpression in HEK cells conferred resistance to cytotoxic levels of carbamazepine. CYP3A4 levels positively correlated with the amount of CBZ metabolized. CYP3A4 brain expression is not only associated with drug metabolism but may also represent a cytoprotective mechanism. Coexpression of CYP3A4 and MDR1 may be involved in cell survival in the diseased brain.
Gladson, Candece	Cancer Biology	30094720	28912141	27858267	27270311	23936469	22396498	20947248	20379377	19737106	19549899	Macroautophagy/autophagy is considered to play key roles in tumor cell evasion of therapy and establishment of metastases in breast cancer. High expression of LC3, a residual autophagy marker, in primary breast tumors has been associated with metastatic disease and poor outcome. FIP200/Atg17, a multi-functional pro-survival molecule required for autophagy, has been implicated in brain metastases in experimental models. However, expression of these proteins has not been examined in brain metastases from patients with breast cancer. In this retrospective study, specimens from 44 patients with brain metastases of infiltrating ductal carcinoma of the breast (IDC), unpaired samples from 52 patients with primary IDC (primary-BC) and 16 matched-paired samples were analyzed for LC3 puncta, expression of FIP200/Atg17, and p62 staining. LC3-puncta<sup>+</sup> tumor cells and FIP200/Atg17 expression were detected in greater than 90% of brain metastases but there were considerable intra- and inter-tumor differences in expression levels. High numbers of LC3-puncta<sup>+</sup> tumor cells in brain metastases correlated with a significantly shorter survival time in triple-negative breast cancer. FIP200/Atg17 protein levels were significantly higher in metastases that subsequently recurred following therapy. The percentages of LC3 puncta<sup>+</sup> tumor cells and FIP200/Atg17 protein expression levels, but not mRNA levels, were significantly higher in metastases than primary-BC. Meta-analysis of gene expression datasets revealed a significant correlation between higher FIP200(RB1CC1)/Atg17 mRNA levels in primary-BC tumors and shorter disease-free survival. These results support assessments of precision medicine-guided targeting of autophagy in treatment of brain metastases in breast cancer patients.	Purpose: Bevacizumab, a humanized monoclonal antibody to VEGF, is used routinely in the treatment of patients with recurrent glioblastoma (GBM). However, very little is known regarding the effects of bevacizumab on the cells in the perivascular space in tumors.Experimental Design: Established orthotopic xenograft and syngeneic models of GBM were used to determine entry of monoclonal anti-VEGF-A into, and uptake by cells in, the perivascular space. Based on the results, we examined CD133<sup>+</sup> cells derived from GBM tumors in vitro Bevacizumab internalization, trafficking, and effects on cell survival were analyzed using multilabel confocal microscopy, immunoblotting, and cytotoxicity assays in the presence/absence of inhibitors.Results: In the GBM mouse models, administered anti-mouse-VEGF-A entered the perivascular tumor niche and was internalized by Sox2<sup>+</sup>/CD44<sup>+</sup> tumor cells. In the perivascular tumor cells, bevacizumab was detected in the recycling compartment or the lysosomes, and increased autophagy was found. Bevacizumab was internalized rapidly by CD133<sup>+</sup>/Sox2<sup>+</sup>-GBM cells in vitro through macropinocytosis with a fraction being trafficked to a recycling compartment, independent of FcRn, and a fraction to lysosomes. Bevacizumab treatment of CD133<sup>+</sup> GBM cells depleted VEGF-A and induced autophagy thereby improving cell survival. An inhibitor of lysosomal acidification decreased bevacizumab-induced autophagy and increased cell death. Inhibition of macropinocytosis increased cell death, suggesting macropinocytosis of bevacizumab promotes CD133<sup>+</sup> cell survival.Conclusions: We demonstrate that bevacizumab is internalized by Sox2<sup>+</sup>/CD44<sup>+</sup>-GBM tumor cells residing in the perivascular tumor niche. Macropinocytosis of bevacizumab and trafficking to the lysosomes promotes CD133<sup>+</sup> cell survival, as does the autophagy induced by bevacizumab depletion of VEGF-A. Clin Cancer Res; 23(22); 7059-71. ©2017 AACR.	The circulating levels of soluble tumor necrosis factor receptor-1 (sTNF-R1) and sTNF-R2 are altered in numerous diseases, including several types of cancer. Correlations with the risk of progression in some cancers, as well as systemic manifestations of the disease and therapeutic side-effects, have been described. However, there is very little information on the levels of these soluble receptors in glioblastoma (GBM). Here, we report on an exploratory retrospective study of the levels of sTNF-Rs in the vascular circulation of patients with GBM. Banked samples were obtained from 112 GBM patients (66 untreated, newly-diagnosed patients and 46 with recurrent disease) from two institutions. The levels of sTNF-R1 in the plasma were significantly lower in patients with newly-diagnosed or recurrent GBM than apparently healthy individuals and correlated with the intensity of expression of TNF-R1 on the tumor-associated endothelial cells (ECs) in the corresponding biopsies. Elevated levels of sTNF-R1 in patients with recurrent, but not newly-diagnosed GBM, were significantly associated with a shorter survival, independent of age (p = 0.02) or steroid medication. In contrast, the levels of circulating sTNF-R2 were significantly higher in recurrent GBM than healthy individuals and there was no significant correlation with expression of TNF-R2 on the tumor-associated ECs or survival time. The results indicate that larger, prospective studies are warranted to determine the predictive value of the levels of sTNF-R1 in patients with recurrent GBM and the factors that regulate the levels of sTNF-Rs in the circulation in GBM patients.	The secretion of soluble pro-angiogenic factors by tumor cells and stromal cells in the perivascular niche promotes the aggressive angiogenesis that is typical of glioblastoma (GBM). Here, we show that angiogenesis also can be promoted by a direct interaction between brain tumor cells, including tumor cells with cancer stem-like properties (CSCs), and endothelial cells (ECs). As shown in vitro, this direct interaction is mediated by binding of integrin αvβ3 expressed on ECs to the RGD-peptide in L1CAM expressed on CSCs. It promotes both EC network formation and enhances directed migration toward basic fibroblast growth factor. Activation of αvβ3 and bone marrow tyrosine kinase on chromosome X (BMX) is required for migration stimulated by direct binding but not for migration stimulated by soluble factors. RGD-peptide treatment of mice with established intracerebral GBM xenografts significantly reduced the percentage of Sox2-positive tumor cells and CSCs in close proximity to ECs, decreased integrin αvβ3 and BMX activation and p130CAS phosphorylation in the ECs, and reduced the vessel surface area. These results reveal a previously unrecognized aspect of the regulation of angiogenesis in GBM that can impact therapeutic anti-angiogenic targeting.	Members of the Src family kinases (SFK) can modulate diverse cellular processes, including division, death and survival, but their role in autophagy has been minimally explored. Here, we investigated the roles of Lyn, a SFK, in promoting the survival of human glioblastoma tumor (GBM) cells in vitro and in vivo using lentiviral vector-mediated expression of constitutively-active Lyn (CA-Lyn) or dominant-negative Lyn (DN-Lyn). Expression of either CA-Lyn or DN-Lyn had no effect on the survival of U87 GBM cells grown under nutrient-rich conditions. In contrast, under nutrient-deprived conditions (absence of supplementation with L-glutamine, which is essential for growth of GBM cells, and FBS) CA-Lyn expression enhanced survival and promoted autophagy as well as inhibiting cell death and promoting proliferation. Expression of DN-Lyn promoted cell death. In the nutrient-deprived GBM cells, CA-Lyn expression enhanced AMPK activity and reduced the levels of pS6 kinase whereas DN-Lyn enhanced the levels of pS6 kinase. Similar results were obtained in vitro using another cultured GBM cell line and primary glioma stem cells. On propagation of the transduced GBM cells in the brains of nude mice, the CA-Lyn xenografts formed larger tumors than control cells and autophagosomes were detectable in the tumor cells. The DN-Lyn xenografts formed smaller tumors and contained more apoptotic cells. Our findings suggest that on nutrient deprivation in vitro Lyn acts to enhance the survival of GBM cells by promoting autophagy and proliferation as well as inhibiting cell death, and Lyn promotes the same effects in vivo in xenograft tumors. As the levels of Lyn protein or its activity are elevated in several cancers these findings may be of broad relevance to cancer biology. 	Activation of TNF receptor 1 (TNF-R1) can generate signals that promote either apoptosis or survival. In this study, we show that these signals can be determined by the character of the extracellular matrix in the tumor microenvironment. Specifically, through studies of glioblastoma, we showed that TNFα stimulation induced apoptosis of primary brain endothelial cells (EC) attached to collagen or fibronectin (which engage integrins α2β1/α3β1 and α5β1, respectively), but did not induce apoptosis of ECs attached to laminin (which engages integrins α6β1 and α3β1). TNF-R1 expression was significantly higher in ECs in glioblastoma (GBM) tumors compared with ECs in normal brain specimens. TNFα was also expressed in GBM tumor-associated ECs, which was associated with longer patient survival. ECs plated on anti-integrin α2 or α3 antibody were susceptible to TNFα-induced apoptosis, whereas those plated on anti-integrin α6 antibody were not. Moreover, the ECs plated on laminin, but not collagen, expressed cellular FLICE inhibitory protein (cFLIP) and TNFα stimulation of laminin-attached cells in which cFLIP had been downregulated resulted in the induction of apoptosis. In contrast, attachment to laminin did not induce cFLIP expression in GBM tumor stem cells. Together, our findings indicate that the laminin receptor integrin α6β1 promotes the survival of brain ECs by inhibiting prodeath signaling by TNF-R1, in part by inducing cFLIP expression.	Glioblastoma (GBM) is an extremely aggressive, infiltrative tumor with a poor prognosis. The regulatory approval of bevacizumab for recurrent GBM has confirmed that molecularly targeted agents have potential for GBM treatment. Preclinical data showing that SRC and SRC-family kinases (SFKs) mediate intracellular signaling pathways controlling key biologic/oncogenic processes provide a strong rationale for investigating SRC/SFK inhibitors, e.g., dasatinib, in GBM and clinical studies are underway. The activity of these agents against solid tumors suggests that they may also be useful in treating brain metastases. This article reviews the potential for using SRC/SFK inhibitors to treat GBM and brain metastases.	Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common primary brain tumor occurring in America. Despite recent advances in therapeutics, the prognosis for patients with newly diagnosed GBM remains dismal. As these tumors characteristically show evidence of angiogenesis (neovascularization) there has been great interest in developing anti-angiogenic therapeutic strategies for the treatment of patients with this disease and some anti-angiogenic agents have now been used for the treatment of patients with malignant glioma tumors. Although the results of these clinical trials are promising in that they indicate an initial therapeutic response, the anti-angiogenic therapies tested to date have not changed the overall survival of patients with malignant glioma tumors. This is due, in large part, to the development of resistance to these therapies. Ongoing research into key features of the neovasculature in malignant glioma tumors, as well as the general angiogenesis process, is suggesting additional molecules that may be targeted and an improved response when both the neovasculature and the tumor cells are targeted. Prevention of the development of resistance may require the development of anti-angiogenic strategies that induce apoptosis or cell death of the neovasculature, as well as an improved understanding of the potential roles of circulating endothelial progenitor cells and vascular co-option by tumor cells, in the development of resistance.	The ongoing characterization of the genetic and epigenetic alterations in the gliomas has already improved the classification of these heterogeneous tumors and enabled the development of rodent models for analysis of the molecular pathways underlying their proliferative and invasive behavior. Effective application of the targeted therapies that are now in development will depend on pathologists' ability to provide accurate information regarding the genetic alterations and the expression of key receptors and ligands in the tumors. Here we review the mechanisms that have been implicated in the pathogenesis of the gliomas and provide examples of the cooperative nature of the pathways involved, which may influence the initial therapeutic response and the potential for development of resistance.	Recombinant plasminogen kringle 5 (rK5) has been shown to induce apoptosis of dermal microvessel endothelial cells (MvEC) in a manner that requires glucose-regulated protein 78 (GRP78). As we are interested in antiangiogenic therapy for glioblastoma tumors, and the effectiveness of antiangiogenic therapy can be enhanced when combined with radiation, we investigated the proapoptotic effects of rK5 combined with radiation on brain MvEC. We found that rK5 treatment of brain MvEC induced apoptosis in a dose- and time-dependent manner and that prior irradiation significantly sensitized (500-fold) the cells to rK5-induced apoptosis. The rK5-induced apoptosis of both unirradiated and irradiated MvEC required expression of GRP78 and the low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1 (LRP1), a scavenger receptor, based on down-regulation studies with small interfering RNA, and blocking studies with either a GRP78 antibody or a competitive inhibitor of ligand binding to LRP1. Furthermore, p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase was found to be a necessary downstream effector for rK5-induced apoptosis. These data suggest that irradiation sensitizes brain MvEC to the rK5-induced apoptosis and that this signal requires LRP1 internalization of GRP78 and the activation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase. Our findings suggest that prior irradiation would have a dose-sparing effect on rK5 antiangiogenic therapy for brain tumors and further suggest that the effects of rK5 would be tumor specific, as the expression of GRP78 protein is up-regulated on the brain MvEC in glioblastoma tumor biopsies compared with the normal brain.
Gong, Zihua	Cancer Biology	28213517	29844495	27037360	25512557	24239288	21504906	21482717	20159562	19124460	30202049	The 53BP1-dependent end-joining pathway plays a critical role in double strand break repair and is uniquely responsible for cellular sensitivity to poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibitors (PARPi) in BRCA1-deficient cancers. We and others have investigated the downstream effectors of 53BP1, including replication timing regulatory factor 1 (RIF1) and Pax transactivation domain-interacting protein (PTIP), in the past few years to elucidate how loss of the 53BP1-dependent repair pathway results in PARPi resistance in BRCA1 patients. However, questions regarding the upstream regulation of the 53BP1 pathway remain unanswered. In this study, we identified the Tudor-interacting repair regulator (TIRR) that specifically associates with the ionizing radiation-induced foci formation region of 53BP1. 53BP1 and TIRR form a stable complex, which is required for their expression. Moreover, the 53BP1-TIRR complex dissociates after DNA damage, and this dissociation may be ataxia telangiectasia mutated-dependent. Similar to 53BP1, loss of TIRR restores PARPi resistance in BRCA1-deficient cells. Collectively, our data identified a novel 53BP1-TIRR complex in DNA damage response. TIRR may play both positive and negative roles in 53BP1 regulation. On the one hand, it stabilizes 53BP1 and thus positively regulates 53BP1. On the other hand, its association with 53BP1 prevents 53BP1 localization to sites of DNA damage, and thus TIRR is also an inhibitor of 53BP1.	P53-binding protein 1 (53BP1) regulates the double-strand break (DSB) repair pathway choice. A recently identified 53BP1-binding protein Tudor-interacting repair regulator (TIRR) modulates the access of 53BP1 to DSBs by masking the H4K20me2 binding surface on 53BP1, but the underlying mechanism remains unclear. Here we report the 1.76-Å crystal structure of TIRR in complex with 53BP1 tandem Tudor domain. We demonstrate that the N-terminal region (residues 10-24) and the L8-loop of TIRR interact with 53BP1 Tudor through three loops (L1, L3, and L1'). TIRR recognition blocks H4K20me2 binding to 53BP1 Tudor and modulates 53BP1 functions in vivo. Structure comparisons identify a TIRR histidine (H106) that is absent from the TIRR homolog Nudt16, but essential for 53BP1 Tudor binding. Remarkably, mutations mimicking TIRR binding modules restore the disrupted binding of Nudt16-53BP1 Tudor. Our studies elucidate the mechanism by which TIRR recognizes 53BP1 Tudor and functions as a cellular inhibitor of the histone methyl-lysine readers.	The mismatch repair (MMR) family is a highly conserved group of proteins that function in correcting base-base and insertion-deletion mismatches generated during DNA replication. Disruption of this process results in characteristic microsatellite instability (MSI), repair defects, and susceptibility to cancer. However, a significant fraction of MSI-positive cancers express MMR genes at normal levels and do not carry detectable mutation in known MMR genes, suggesting that additional factors and/or mechanisms may exist to explain these MSI phenotypes in patients. To systematically investigate the MMR pathway, we conducted a proteomic analysis and identified MMR-associated protein complexes using tandem-affinity purification coupled with mass spectrometry (TAP-MS) method. The mass spectrometry data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003014 and DOI 10.6019/PXD003014. We identified 230 high-confidence candidate interaction proteins (HCIPs). We subsequently focused on MSH2, an essential component of the MMR pathway and uncovered a novel MSH2-binding partner, WDHD1. We further demonstrated that WDHD1 forms a stable complex with MSH2 and MSH3 or MSH6,i.e.the MutS complexes. The specific MSH2/WDHD1 interaction is mediated by the second lever domain of MSH2 and Ala(1123)site of WDHD1. Moreover, we showed that, just like MSH2-deficient cells, depletion of WDHD1 also led to 6-thioguanine (6-TG) resistance, indicating that WDHD1 likely contributes to the MMR pathway. Taken together, our study uncovers new components involved in the MMR pathway, which provides candidate genes that may be responsible for the development of MSI-positive cancers. 	PARP inhibitors (PARPis) are being used in patients with BRCA1/2 mutations. However, doubly deficient BRCA1(-/-)53BP1(-/-) cells or tumors become resistant to PARPis. Since 53BP1 or its known downstream effectors, PTIP and RIF1 (RAP1-interacting factor 1 homolog), lack enzymatic activities directly implicated in DNA repair, we decided to further explore the 53BP1-dependent pathway. In this study, we uncovered a nuclease, Artemis, as a PTIP-binding protein. Loss of Artemis restores PARPi resistance in BRCA1-deficient cells. Collectively, our data demonstrate that Artemis is the major downstream effector of the 53BP1 pathway, which prevents end resection and promotes nonhomologous end-joining and therefore directly competes with the homologous recombination repair pathway. 	Human TopBP1 is a key mediator protein involved in DNA replication checkpoint control. In this study, we report a specific interaction between TopBP1 and Bloom syndrome helicase (BLM) that is phosphorylation and cell-cycle dependent. Interestingly, TopBP1 depletion led to decreased BLM protein level and increased sister chromatid exchange (SCE). Moreover, our data indicated that BLM was ubiquitinated by E3 ligase MIB1 and degraded in G1 cells but was stabilized by TopBP1 in S phase cells. Depletion of MIB1 restored BLM protein level and rescued the elevated SCE phenotype in TopBP1-depleted cells. In addition, cells expressing an undegradable BLM mutant showed radiation sensitivity, probably by triggering end resection and inhibiting the nonhomologous end-joining (NHEJ) pathway in G1 phase. Altogether, these data suggest that, although BLM is downregulated in G1 phase in order to promote NHEJ-mediated DNA repair, it is stabilized by TopBP1 in S phase cells in order to suppress SCE and thereby prevent genomic instability.	RFWD3 has E3 ligase activity in vitro, but its in vivo function remains unknown. In this study we identified RFWD3 as a novel replication protein A (RPA)-associated protein. Using purified proteins, we observed a direct interaction between RPA2 and RFWD3. Further analysis showed that RFWD3 is recruited to stalled replication forks and co-localizes with RPA2 in response to replication stress. Moreover, RFWD3 is important for ATR-dependent Chk1 activation in response to replication stress. Upon replication stress, deletion of RPA2 binding region on RFWD3 impairs its localization to stalled replication forks and decreases Chk1 activation. Taken together, our results suggest that RFWD3 and RPA2 functionally interact and participate in replication checkpoint control.	Human TopBP1 is a major player in the control of the DNA replication checkpoint. In this study, we identified MDC1, a key checkpoint protein involved in the cellular response to DNA double-strand breaks, as a TopBP1-associated protein. The specific TopBP1-MDC1 interaction is mediated by the fifth BRCT domain of TopBP1 and the Ser-Asp-Thr (SDT) repeats of MDC1. In addition, we demonstrated that TopBP1 accumulation at stalled replication forks is promoted by the H2AX/MDC1 signaling cascade. Moreover, MDC1 is important for ATR-dependent Chk1 activation in response to replication stress. Collectively, our data suggest that MDC1 facilitates several important steps in both cellular DNA damage response and the DNA replication checkpoint.	Human TopBP1 plays a critical role in the control of DNA replication checkpoint. In this study, we report a specific interaction between TopBP1 and BACH1/FANCJ, a DNA helicase involved in the repair of DNA crosslinks. The TopBP1/BACH1 interaction is mediated by the very C-terminal tandem BRCT domains of TopBP1 and S phase-specific phosphorylation of BACH1 at Thr 1133 site. Interestingly, we demonstrate that depletion of TopBP1 or BACH1 attenuates the loading of RPA on chromatin. Moreover, both TopBP1 and BACH1 are required for ATR-dependent phosphorylation events in response to replication stress. Taken together, our data suggest that BACH1 has an unexpected early role in replication checkpoint control. A specific interaction between TopBP1 and BACH1 is likely to be required for the extension of single-stranded DNA regions and RPA loading following replication stress, which is a prerequisite for the subsequent activation of replication checkpoint.	Genomic stability in eukaryotic cells is maintained by the coordination of multiple cellular events including cell cycle checkpoint, DNA repair, transcription, and apoptosis after DNA damage. Pax2 transactivation domain interaction protein (PTIP), a protein that contains six BRCT domains, has been implicated in DNA damage response. In this study we showed that recruitment of PTIP to damaged chromatin depends on DNA damage signaling proteins gammaH2AX.MDC1.RNF8, which in turn facilitates sustained localization of PA1 (PTIP-associated protein 1) to sites of DNA break. Similar to PTIP, depletion of PA1 increases cellular sensitivity to ionizing radiation. Furthermore, we demonstrated that the N-terminal PA1 binding domain and the C-terminal focus-localization domain of PTIP are critical for PTIP function in DNA damage repair. Interestingly, although PTIP and PA1 associate with MLL (mixed lineage leukemia) complexes and participate in transcriptional regulation, this function of PTIP.PA1 in DNA damage response is likely to be independent of the MLL complexes. Taken together, we propose that a subset of PTIP.PA1 complex is recruited to DNA damage sites via the RNF8-dependent pathway and is required for cell survival in response to DNA damage.	The roles and regulatory mechanisms of ferroptosis (a non-apoptotic form of cell death) in cancer remain unclear. The tumour suppressor BRCA1-associated protein 1 (BAP1) encodes a nuclear deubiquitinating enzyme to reduce histone 2A ubiquitination (H2Aub) on chromatin. Here, integrated transcriptomic, epigenomic and cancer genomic analyses link BAP1 to metabolism-related biological processes, and identify cystine transporter SLC7A11 as a key BAP1 target gene in human cancers. Functional studies reveal that BAP1 decreases H2Aub occupancy on the SLC7A11 promoter and represses SLC7A11 expression in a deubiquitinating-dependent manner, and that BAP1 inhibits cystine uptake by repressing SLC7A11 expression, leading to elevated lipid peroxidation and ferroptosis. Furthermore, we show that BAP1 inhibits tumour development partly through SLC7A11 and ferroptosis, and that cancer-associated BAP1 mutants lose their abilities to repress SLC7A11 and to promote ferroptosis. Together, our results uncover a previously unappreciated epigenetic mechanism coupling ferroptosis to tumour suppression.
Graham, Linda	Biomedical Engineering	28835433	26858457	26125413	24820897	22047834	20347693	19939614	18585884	18495872	16141413	Lipid oxidation products, including lysophosphatidylcholine (lysoPC), activate canonical transient receptor potential 6 (TRPC6) channels, and the subsequent increase in intracellular Ca<sup>2+</sup> leads to TRPC5 activation. The goal of this study is to elucidate the steps in the pathway between TRPC6 activation and TRPC5 externalization. Following TRPC6 activation by lysoPC, extracellular regulated kinase (ERK) is phosphorylated. This leads to phosphorylation of p47<sup>phox</sup> and subsequent NADPH oxidase activation with increased production of reactive oxygen species. ERK activation requires TRPC6 opening and influx of Ca<sup>2+</sup> as evidenced by the failure of lysoPC to induce ERK phosphorylation in TRPC6<sup>-/-</sup> endothelial cells. ERK siRNA blocks the lysoPC-induced activation of NADPH oxidase, demonstrating that ERK activation is upstream of NADPH oxidase. The reactive oxygen species produced by NADPH oxidase promote myosin light chain kinase (MLCK) activation with phosphorylation of MLC and TRPC5 externalization. Downregulation of ERK, NADPH oxidase, or MLCK with the relevant siRNA prevents TRPC5 externalization. Blocking MLCK activation prevents the prolonged rise in intracellular calcium levels and preserves endothelial migration in the presence of lysoPC.	Lipid oxidation products, including lysophosphatidylcholine (lysoPC), activate canonical transient receptor potential 6 (TRPC6) channels leading to inhibition of endothelial cell (EC) migration in vitro and delayed EC healing of arterial injuries in vivo. The precise mechanism through which lysoPC activates TRPC6 channels is not known, but calmodulin (CaM) contributes to the regulation of TRPC channels. Using site-directed mutagenesis, cDNAs were generated in which Tyr(99) or Tyr(138) of CaM was replaced with Phe, generating mutant CaM, Phe(99)-CaM, or Phe(138)-CaM, respectively. In ECs transiently transfected with pcDNA3.1-myc-His-Phe(99)-CaM, but not in ECs transfected with pcDNA3.1-myc-His-Phe(138)-CaM, the lysoPC-induced TRPC6-CaM dissociation and TRPC6 externalization was disrupted. Also, the lysoPC-induced increase in intracellular calcium concentration was inhibited in ECs transiently transfected with pcDNA3.1-myc-His-Phe(99)-CaM. Blocking phosphorylation of CaM at Tyr(99) also reduced CaM association with the p85 subunit and subsequent activation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K). This prevented the increase in phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate (PIP3) and the translocation of TRPC6 to the cell membrane and reduced the inhibition of EC migration by lysoPC. These findings suggest that lysoPC induces CaM phosphorylation at Tyr(99) by a Src family kinase and that phosphorylated CaM activates PI3K to produce PIP3, which promotes TRPC6 translocation to the cell membrane. 	Endothelial cell (EC) migration is essential for healing of arterial injuries caused by angioplasty, but a high cholesterol diet inhibits endothelial repair. In vivo studies suggest that apolipoprotein A-I (apoA-I), the major protein constituent of HDL, is essential for normal healing of arterial injuries. ApoA-I mimetics, including 4F, have been designed to mimic the amphipathic portion of the apoA-I molecule. This study was undertaken to determine if 4F improves endothelial migration and healing. A razor scrape assay was used to analyze the effect of 4F on EC migration in vitro. Endothelial healing in vivo was assessed following electrical injury of carotid arteries in mice. Markers of oxidative stress were also examined. Lipid oxidation products inhibited EC migration in vitro, but preincubation with L-4F preserved EC migration. Endothelial healing of carotid arterial injuries in mice on a high cholesterol diet was delayed compared with mice on a chow diet with 27.8% vs. 48.2% healing, respectively, at 5 days. Administration of D-4F improved endothelial healing in mice on a high cholesterol diet to 43.4%. D-4F administration had no effect on lipid levels but decreased markers of oxidation. In vivo, there was a significant inverse correlation between endothelial healing and plasma markers of oxidative stress. These studies suggested that an apoA-I mimetic can improve endothelial healing of arterial injuries by decreasing oxidative stress.	After arterial injury, endothelial cell (EC) migration is essential for healing, but lipid oxidation products activate TRPC6 and TRPC5 ion channels, leading to increased intracellular calcium and inhibition of EC migration in vitro. The objective of this study was to further evaluate the role of TRPC channels in EC migration in vitro and to validate in vitro findings in an in vivo model. Mouse aortic ECs were cultured, and the effect of lysophosphatidylcholine, the major lysophospholipid in oxidized low-density lipoprotein, on migration was assessed in a razor-scrape assay. EC healing after a carotid injury with electrocautery was evaluated in wild-type (WT), TRPC6(-/-), and TRPC5(-/-) mice receiving either a chow or high-cholesterol (HC) diet. Lysophosphatidylcholine inhibited EC migration of WT ECs to 22% of baseline and of TRPC5(-/-) ECs to 53% of baseline but had minimal effect on TRPC6(-/-) EC migration. Hypercholesterolemia severely impaired EC healing in vivo, with 51.4% ± 1.8% and 24.9% ± 2.0% of the injury resurfaced with ECs at 5 days in chow-fed and HC-fed WT mice, respectively (P &lt; .001). Hypercholesterolemia did not impair healing in TRPC6(-/-) mice, with coverage of 48.4% ± 3.4% and 46.8% ± 1.6% in chow-fed and HC-fed TRPC6(-/-) mice, respectively. Hypercholesterolemia had a reduced inhibitory effect in TRPC5(-/-) mice, with EC coverage of 51.7% ± 3.0% and 37.% ± 1.4% in chow-fed and HC-fed TRPC5(-/-) mice, respectively. Results suggest that activation of TRPC6 and TRPC5 channels is the key contributor to impaired endothelial healing of arterial injuries in hypercholesterolemic mice.	Endothelial cell (EC) migration is essential for arterial healing after angioplasty. Oxidized low-density lipoproteins and oxidative stress decrease EC migration in vitro. The objective of this study was to determine the effect of hypercholesterolemia and oxidative stress on EC healing after an arterial injury. C57BL/6 wild-type mice were placed in one of eight groups: chow diet (n = 11), high-cholesterol (HC) diet (n = 11), chow diet plus paraquat (n = 11), HC diet plus paraquat (n = 11), chow diet plus N-acetylcysteine (NAC) (n = 11), HC diet plus NAC (n = 11), chow diet plus paraquat and NAC (n = 11), and HC diet plus paraquat and NAC (n = 11). After 2 weeks on the assigned diet with or without NAC, the carotid artery was injured using electrocautery. Animals in the paraquat groups were given 1 mg/kg intraperitoneally to increase oxidative stress. After 120 hours, Evans Blue dye was infused intravenously to stain the area of the artery that remained deendothelialized. This was used to calculate the percentage of re-endothelialization. Plasma and tissue samples were analyzed for measures of oxidative stress. The HC diet increased oxidative stress and reduced EC healing compared with a chow diet, with EC covering 26.8% ± 2.8% and 48.1% ± 5.2% (P &lt; .001) of the injured area, respectively. Administration of paraquat decreased healing in both chow and HC animals to 18.1% ± 3.5% (P &lt; .001) and 9.8% ± 4.6% (P &lt; .001), respectively. Pretreatment with NAC (120 mmol/L in drinking water) for 2 weeks prior to injury, to decrease oxidative stress, improved EC healing to 39.9% ± 5.7% (P &lt; .001) in hypercholesterolemic mice and to 30.7% ± 3.6% (P &lt; .001) in the paraquat group. NAC treatment improved healing to 24.6% ± 3.4% (P &lt; .001) in hypercholesterolemic mice treated with paraquat. Re-endothelialization of arterial injuries is reduced in hypercholesterolemic mice and is inversely correlated with oxidative stress. An oral antioxidant decreases oxidative stress and improves EC healing. Vascular injury following cardiovascular intervention, including cardiac and peripheral arterial angioplasty and stenting, is associated with inflammation and oxidative stress. Hypercholesterolemia is also associated with increased oxidative stress. Oxidative stress, regardless of the source, induces cellular dysfunction in endothelial and smooth muscle cells that reduce healing after arterial injury. Decreasing oxidative stress with an exogenously administered antioxidant can improve endothelial cell healing, and this is important to control intimal hyperplasia and reduce the thrombogenicity of the vessel.	Transcription factor signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 1 has been linked to a variety of pathologic states involved with matrix remodeling, but its role in aortic pathology has not been previously described. The current study hypothesized that STAT1 regulates aneurysmal degeneration and its role was evaluated in human abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) and in a mouse model of aortic dissection. Apolipoprotein E knockout mice (ApoE-/-) or ApoE/STAT1 double knockout mice (ApoE/STAT1-/-) were infused with 1000 ng/kg/min of angiotensin II. Systolic blood pressure (SBP) was measured in the rodent tail. At sacrifice, aortic diameters and extent of aneurysm formation were measured by digital microscopy. STAT1 and phosphorylated-STAT1 protein levels were assessed in ApoE-/- mice at 0, 7, 14, and 28 days (n = 8/time point) by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Histology was performed using hematoxylin and eosin (H&amp;E) and Movat stains. Statistical analyses included chi(2) test, t test, and analysis of variance. STAT1 messenger RNA and total protein were greater in human AAA vs non-AAA controls. In addition, aneurysms occurred in 8%, 50%, and 80% of ApoE-/- mice at 7, 14, and 28 days, respectively. Total STAT1 levels were not altered during the course of angiotensin II infusion. Phosphorylated STAT1 levels peaked at 7 days with a 1.4-fold increase over baseline (P &lt; .05). Aneurysms occurred in 0%, 100%, and 100% of ApoE/STAT1-/- mice at 3, 5, and 28 days. In mice infused with angiotensin II for &gt;3 days, aortic rupture occurred more frequently in ApoE/STAT-/- mice (53% vs 19%, P &lt; .05) and at earlier time points (4.0 +/- 0.5 vs 9.2 +/- 0.77 days, P &lt; .05) vs ApoE-/- mice. SBP did not differ between the groups during angiotensin II infusion. By 28 days, aneurysms were larger in ApoE/STAT1-/- mice compared with ApoE-/- mice (2.7 +/- 0.4 vs 1.9 +/- 0.1 mm, P &lt; .05) and were more extensive. H&amp;E and Movat stain did not reveal differences in aortic wall structural content at baseline between ApoE-/- and ApoE/STAT1-/- mice. Both groups demonstrated equal disorganization in the aneurysmal state. Phosphorylated STAT1 is elevated during aneurysmal degeneration. Its loss is associated with a higher rate of acute aortic rupture and more extensive aneurysms in a mouse model of aortic dissection. Further investigation is necessary to determine whether these observations are secondary to an underlying aortic wall abnormality or alterations in vessel wall matrix remodeling.	Limited endothelial cell (EC) coverage and anastomotic intimal hyperplasia contribute to thrombosis and failure of prosthetic grafts. Lipid accumulation and lipid oxidation are associated with decreased EC migration and intimal hyperplasia. The goal of this study was to assess the ability of antioxidants to improve graft healing in hypercholesterolemic animals. Rabbits were placed in one of four groups: chow plus N-acetylcysteine (NAC), chow plus probucol, chow with 1% cholesterol plus NAC, or chow with 1% cholesterol plus probucol. After 2 weeks, expanded polytetrafluoroethylene grafts (12 cm long x 4-mm internal diameter) were implanted in the abdominal aorta. Grafts were removed after 6 weeks and analyzed for cholesterol content, EC coverage, anastomotic intimal thickness, and the cellular composition of the neointima. Plasma samples were obtained to assess systemic oxidative stress. The data were compared with previously reported data from animals fed diets of chow and chow with 1% cholesterol. Prosthetic grafts from rabbits fed chow with 1% cholesterol had significantly greater anastomotic intimal thickening and lower EC coverage than grafts from rabbits fed a regular chow diet. In hypercholesterolemic rabbits, antioxidant therapy decreased global oxidative stress as evidenced by a 40% decrease in plasma thiobarbituric acid reactive substances. In rabbits fed the chow with 1% cholesterol diet, NAC decreased intimal hyperplasia at the proximal anastomosis by 29% and significantly increased graft EC coverage from 46% to 71% (P = .03). Following a similar pattern, probucol decreased intimal hyperplasia by 43% and increased graft EC coverage to 53% in hypercholesterolemic rabbits. Global oxidative stress and anastomotic intimal hyperplasia are increased, and endothelialization of prosthetic grafts is significantly reduced in rabbits fed a high-cholesterol diet. Antioxidant treatment improves EC coverage and decreases intimal hyperplasia. Reducing oxidative stress may promote healing of prosthetic grafts.	The patency of prosthetic grafts is partly limited by incomplete endothelial cell coverage and development of anastomotic intimal hyperplasia. The goal of this study was to determine the effect of elevated cholesterol on prosthetic graft healing and the ability of alpha-tocopherol to improve healing. Rabbits were placed on one of four diets: chow, chow plus 1% cholesterol, chow plus alpha-tocopherol, or chow plus 1% cholesterol and alpha-tocopherol. After 2 weeks, expanded polytetrafluoroethylene grafts (12-cm long, 4-mm internal diameter) were implanted in the abdominal aorta. Grafts were removed after 6 weeks and analyzed for cholesterol and alpha-tocopherol content, endothelial coverage, anastomotic intimal thickness, and cellular composition of the neointima. At the time of graft implantation, plasma cholesterol was 34 +/- 4 mg/dL in the chow group and 689 +/- 30 mg/dL in the 1% cholesterol group (P &lt; .05). Grafts removed from hypercholesterolemic rabbits had marked intimal thickening, with an intima/graft thickness ratio of 0.76 +/- 0.29 compared with 0.14 +/- 0.06 in chow animals (P &lt; .05). Macrophage infiltrate was increased to 45 +/- 11 macrophages/0.625 mm(2) in grafts from hypercholesterolemic rabbits compared with 0 +/- 0.4 in controls (P &lt; .05). Endothelialization of grafts was lower in hypercholesterolemic rabbits than in the chow group, with endothelial cells covering 46% +/- 7% and 62% +/- 7% of the graft surface, respectively (P = .05). When alpha-tocopherol was added to the 1% cholesterol diet, the macrophage count decreased to 12 +/- 8, the intimal/graft thickness ratio decreased to 0.17 +/- 0.09, and endothelial coverage increased to 70% +/- 7% (P &lt; .05 compared with the high-cholesterol group). Anastomotic intimal hyperplasia is dramatically increased and endothelialization is reduced in rabbits on a high-cholesterol diet, but alpha-tocopherol supplementation blocks the augmented neointimal thickening and improves endothelial cell coverage.	Canonical transient receptor potential (TRPC) channels are opened by classical signal transduction events initiated by receptor activation or depletion of intracellular calcium stores. Here, we report a novel mechanism for opening TRPC channels in which TRPC6 activation initiates a cascade resulting in TRPC5 translocation. When endothelial cells (ECs) are incubated in lysophosphatidylcholine (lysoPC), rapid translocation of TRPC6 initiates calcium influx that results in externalization of TRPC5. Activation of this TRPC6-5 cascade causes a prolonged increase in intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) that inhibits EC movement. When TRPC5 is down-regulated with siRNA, the lysoPC-induced rise in [Ca(2+)](i) is shortened and the inhibition of EC migration is lessened. When TRPC6 is down-regulated or EC from TRPC6(-/-) mice are studied, lysoPC has minimal effect on [Ca(2+)](i) and EC migration. In addition, TRPC5 is not externalized in response to lysoPC, supporting the dependence of TRPC5 translocation on the opening of TRPC6 channels. Activation of this novel TRPC channel cascade by lysoPC, resulting in the inhibition of EC migration, could adversely impact on EC healing in atherosclerotic arteries where lysoPC is abundant.	Endothelial cell (EC) migration is a complex process requiring exquisitely coordinated focal adhesion assembly and disassembly. Protein kinase C (PKC) is known to regulate focal adhesion formation. Because lysophosphatidylcholine (lysoPC), a major lipid constituent of oxidized low-density lipoprotein, can activate PKC and inhibit EC migration, we explored the signaling cascade responsible for this inhibition. LysoPC increased PKCdelta activity, measured by in vitro kinase activity assay, and increased PKCdelta phosphorylation. Decreasing PKCdelta activation, using pharmacological inhibitors or antisense oligonucleotides, diminished the antimigratory effect of lysoPC. LysoPC-induced PKCdelta activation was followed by increased phosphorylation of the transmembrane proteoglycan, syndecan-4, and decreased binding of PKCalpha to syndecan-4, with a concomitant decrease in PKCalpha activity. A reciprocal relationship was noted between the interaction of PKCalpha and alpha-actinin with syndecan-4. These changes were temporally related to the observed changes in cell morphology and the inhibition of migration of ECs incubated with lysoPC. The data suggested that generalized activation of PKCdelta by lysoPC initiated a cascade of events, including phosphorylation of syndecan-4, displacement and decreased activity of PKCalpha, binding of alpha-actinin to syndecan-4, and disruption of the time- and site-specific regulation of focal adhesion complex assembly and disassembly required for normal cell migration.
Gupta, Neetu	Inflammation and Immunity	30021765	27909060	26673134	25801911	25746045	24117813	24043890	23338238	22815291	21751808	Genetic deletion of the Src family tyrosine kinase Lyn in mice recapitulates human systemic lupus erythematosus, characterized by hyperactive BCR signaling, splenomegaly, autoantibody generation, and glomerulonephritis. However, the molecular regulators of autoimmunity in Lyn-deficient mice and in human lupus remain poorly characterized. In this study, we report that conditional deletion of the membrane-cytoskeleton linker protein ezrin in B cells of Lyn-deficient mice (double knockout [DKO] mice) ameliorates B cell activation and lupus pathogenesis. B cells from DKO mice respond poorly to BCR stimulation, with severe downregulation of major signaling pathways. DKO mice exhibit reduced splenomegaly as well as significantly lower levels of autoantibodies against a variety of autoantigens, including dsDNA, histone, and chromatin. Leukocyte infiltration and deposition of IgG and complement component C3 in the kidney glomeruli of DKO mice are markedly reduced. Our data demonstrate that ezrin is a novel molecular regulator of B cell-associated lupus pathology.	Intestinal ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury is a relatively common pathological condition that can lead to multi-organ failure and mortality. Regulatory mechanism for this disease is poorly understood, although it is established that circulating pathogenic natural IgM, which is primarily produced by B1a cells outside of the peritoneal cavity, are integrally involved. CD6 was originally identified as a marker for T cells and was later found to be present on some subsets of B cells in humans; however, whether CD6 plays any role in intestinal I/R-induced injury and, if so, the underlying mechanisms, remain unknown. Here we report that CD6<sup>-/-</sup> mice were significantly protected from intestinal inflammation and mucosal damage compared with WT mice in a model of intestinal I/R-induced injury. Mechanistically, we found that CD6 was selectively expressed on B1 cells outside of the bone marrow and peritoneal cavity and that pathogenic natural IgM titers were reduced in the CD6<sup>-/-</sup> mice in association with significantly decreased B1a cell population. Our results reveal an unexpected role of CD6 in the pathogenesis of intestinal IR-induced injury by regulating the self-renewal of B1a cells.	IL-10 produced by B cells is important for controlling inflammation, thus underscoring the need to identify mechanisms regulating its production. In this study, we demonstrate that conditional deletion of ezrin in B cells increases IL-10 production induced by TLR4 ligation. The MyD88-independent Toll/IL-1R domain-containing adapter inducing IFN-β-IFN regulatory factor 3 pathway is required for Ezrin-deficient B cells to produce higher IL-10 upon LPS stimulation. Treatment of B cells with a novel small-molecule inhibitor of ezrin induces its dephosphorylation and increases LPS-induced NF-κB and IFN regulatory factor 3 activation and IL-10 secretion, indicating a role for threonine 567 phosphorylation of ezrin in limiting IL-10. Loss of ezrin in B cells results in dampened proinflammatory response to a sublethal dose of LPS in vivo, which is dependent on increased IL-10 production. Taken together, our data yield new insights into molecular and membrane-cytoskeletal regulation of B cell IL-10 production and reveal ezrin as a potential therapeutic target in inflammatory diseases. 	Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is a hematological cancer associated with an aggressive clinical course. The predominant subtypes of DLBCL display features of chronic or tonic B-cell antigen receptor (BCR) signaling. However, it is not known whether the spatial organization of the BCR contributes to the regulation of pro-survival signaling pathways and cell growth. Here, we show that primary DLBCL tumors and patient-derived DLBCL cell lines contain high levels of phosphorylated Ezrin-Radixin-Moesin (ERM) proteins. The surface BCRs in both activated B cell and germinal B cell subtype DLBCL cells co-segregate with phosphoERM suggesting that the cytoskeletal network may support localized BCR signaling and contribute to pathogenesis. Indeed, ablation of membrane-cytoskeletal linkages by dominant-negative mutants, pharmacological inhibition and knockdown of ERM proteins disrupted cell surface BCR organization, inhibited proximal and distal BCR signaling, and reduced the growth of DLBCL cell lines. In vivo administration of the ezrin inhibitor retarded the growth of DLBCL tumor xenografts, concomitant with reduction in intratumor phosphoERM levels, dampened pro-survival signaling and induction of apoptosis. Our results reveal a novel ERM-based spatial mechanism that is coopted by DLBCL cells to sustain tumor cell growth and survival. 	Dynamic reorganization of the cortical cytoskeleton is essential for numerous cellular processes, including B- and T-cell activation and migration. The ezrin-radixin-moesin (ERM) family of proteins plays structural and regulatory roles in the rearrangement of plasma membrane flexibility and protrusions through its members' reversible interaction with cortical actin filaments and the plasma membrane. Recent studies demonstrated that ERM proteins not only are involved in cytoskeletal organization but also offer a platform for the transmission of signals in response to a variety of extracellular stimuli through their ability to cross-link transmembrane receptors with downstream signaling components. In this review, we summarize present knowledge relating to ERMs and recent progress made toward elucidating a novel role for them in the regulation of B-cell function in health and disease. 	Lymphocyte activation and migration involve large-scale actin cytoskeletal remodeling. The Ezrin-Radixin-Moesin (ERM) family proteins reversibly link the plasma membrane and cortical actin meshwork and mediate the dynamic nature of the membrane-cytoskeletal interface to facilitate remodeling. The reversibility of this linkage is controlled by the conformation of ERM proteins and depends on the phosphorylation of a conserved threonine residue in the actin-binding domain. Disruption of the phospho-cycling nature of ERM proteins through dominant negative and constitutively active mutants results in impaired lymphocyte migration and activation. In recent years, a novel role has emerged for ERM proteins as signaling scaffolds that can modulate B and T-cell activation through additional posttranslational modifications at tyrosine residues. Here, we highlight recent studies that have redefined the role of ERM proteins in lymphocyte activation and migration. We discuss how lymphocyte-specific knockouts of ERM proteins and high resolution imaging techniques have identified a novel function for them as rheostats that modulate the strength of antigen receptor signaling in B cells. Finally, we describe scenarios in which ERM protein function is coopted by pathogens for their own transmission and speculate on the potential of ERM proteins for regulating undesirable lymphocyte behaviors such as autoimmunity and malignancy. 	Ezrin is a member of the ezrin-radixin-moesin family of membrane-actin cytoskeleton cross-linkers that participate in a variety of cellular processes. In B cells, phosphorylation of ezrin at different sites regulates multiple processes, such as lipid raft coalescence, BCR diffusion, microclustering, and endosomal JNK activation. In this study, we generated mice with conditional deletion of ezrin in the B cell lineage to investigate the physiological significance of ezrin's function in Ag receptor-mediated B cell activation and humoral immunity. B cell development, as well as the proportion and numbers of major B cell subsets in peripheral lymphoid organs, was unaffected by the loss of ezrin. Using superresolution imaging methods, we show that, in the absence of ezrin, BCRs respond to Ag binding by accumulating into larger and more stable signaling microclusters. Loss of ezrin led to delayed BCR capping and accelerated lipid raft coalescence. Although proximal signaling proteins showed stronger activation in the absence of ezrin, components of the distal BCR signaling pathways displayed distinct effects. Ezrin deficiency resulted in increased B cell proliferation and differentiation into Ab-secreting cells ex vivo and stronger T cell-independent and -dependent responses to Ag in vivo. Overall, our data demonstrate that ezrin regulates amplification of BCR signals and tunes the strength of B cell activation and humoral immunity. 	The ezrin-radixin-moesin proteins regulate B lymphocyte activation via their effect on BCR diffusion and microclustering. This relies on their ability to dynamically tether the plasma membrane with actin filaments that is in turn facilitated by phosphorylation of the conserved threonine residue in the actin-binding domain. In this study, we describe a novel function of ezrin in regulating JNK activation that is mediated by phosphorylation of a tyrosine (Y353) residue that is unconserved with moesin and radixin. BCR, but not CD40, TLR4, or CXCR5 stimulation, induced phosphorylation of ezrin at Y353 in mouse splenic B cells. Ezrin existed in a preformed complex with Syk in unstimulated B cells and underwent Syk-dependent phosphorylation upon anti-IgM stimulation. Y353-phosphorylated ezrin colocalized with the BCR within minutes of stimulation and cotrafficked with the endocytosed BCRs through the early and late endosomes. The T567 residue of ezrin was rephosphorylated in late endosomes and at the plasma membrane at later times of BCR stimulation. Expression of a nonphosphorylatable Y353F mutant of ezrin specifically impaired JNK activation. BCR crosslinking induced the association of Y353-phosphorylated ezrin with JNK and its kinase MAPKK7, as well as spatial colocalization with phosphorylated JNK in the endosomes. The yellow fluorescent protein-tagged Y353F mutant displayed reduced colocalization with the endocytosed BCR as compared with wild-type ezrin-yellow fluorescent protein. Taken together, our data identify a novel role for ezrin as a spatial adaptor that couples JNK signaling components to the BCR signalosome, thus facilitating JNK activation.	Contact hypersensitivity (CHS) is a T cell response to hapten skin challenge of sensitized individuals proposed to be mediated by hapten-primed CD8 cytolytic T cells. Effector CD8 T cell recruitment into hapten challenge sites to elicit CHS requires prior CXCL1- and CXCL2-mediated neutrophil infiltration into the site. We investigated whether neutrophil activities directing hapten-primed CD8 T cell skin infiltration in response to 2,4-dinitro-1-fluorobenzene (DNFB) required Fas ligand (FasL) and perforin expression. Although DNFB sensitization of gld/perforin-/- mice induced hapten-specific CD8 T cells producing IFN-γ and IL-17, these T cells did not infiltrate the DNFB challenge site to elicit CHS but did infiltrate the challenge site and elicit CHS when transferred to hapten-challenged naive wild-type recipients. Hapten-primed wild-type CD8 T cells, however, did not elicit CHS when transferred to naive gld/perforin-/- recipients. Wild-type bone marrow neutrophils expressed FasL and perforin, and when transferred to sensitized gld/perforin-/- mice, they restored hapten-primed CD8 T cell infiltration into the challenge site and CHS. The FasL/perforin-mediated activity of wild-type neutrophils induced the expression of T cell chemoattractants, CCL1, CCL2, and CCL5, within the hapten-challenged skin. These results indicate FasL/perforin-independent functions of hapten-primed CD8 T cells in CHS and identify new functions for neutrophils in regulating effector CD8 T cell recruitment and immune responses in the skin.	The molecular regulation of recruitment and assembly of signalosomes near the B cell receptor (BCR) is poorly understood. We have previously demonstrated a role for the ERM family protein ezrin in regulating antigen-dependent lipid raft coalescence in B cells. In this study, we addressed the possibility that ezrin may collaborate with other adaptor proteins to regulate signalosome dynamics at the membrane. Using mass spectrometry-based proteomics analysis, we identified Myo18aα as a novel binding partner of ezrin. Myo18aα is an attractive candidate as it has several protein-protein interaction domains and an intrinsic motor activity. The expression of Myo18aα varied during B cell development in the bone marrow and in mature B cell subsets suggesting functional differences. Interestingly, BCR stimulation increased the association between ezrin and Myo18aα, and induced co-segregation of Myo18aα with the BCR and phosphotyrosine-containing proteins. Our data raise an intriguing possibility that the Myo18aα/ezrin complex may facilitate BCR-mediated signaling by recruiting signaling proteins that are in close proximity of the antigen receptor. Our study is not only significant with respect to understanding the molecular regulation of BCR signaling but also provides a broader basis for understanding the mechanism of action of ezrin in other cellular systems.
Hagstrom, Stephanie	Ophthalmic Research	29721989	27099955	26987071	26427465	26427415	26202387	26028346	25491159	24813631	24811960	Vitamin A/retinol (ROL) and its metabolites (retinoids) play critical roles in eye development and photoreception. Short-term dietary vitamin A deficiency (VAD) manifests clinically as night blindness, while prolonged VAD is known to cause retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) and photoreceptor degeneration. Therefore, sustained uptake of dietary vitamin A, for ocular retinoid production, is essential for photoreceptor health and visual function. The mechanisms influencing the uptake, storage, and supply of dietary vitamin A, for ocular retinoid production, however, are not fully understood. We investigated, in zebrafish, the physiological role of the retinol-binding protein receptor 2 (Rbpr2), for the uptake of dietary ROL, which is necessary for vision. NIH3T3 cells expressing zebrafish Rbpr2 showed plasma membrane localization patterns and were capable of ROL uptake from its bound form. Using whole-mount in situ hybridization, Rbpr2 was found to be expressed exclusively in the liver, intestine, and pancreas, of staged zebrafish larvae. At 5.5 days post fertilization, TALEN-generated rbpr2 mutants (rbpr2 <sup>-/-</sup> ) had smaller eyes and shorter OS lengths and showed loss of PNA (cones) and rhodopsin (rods) by immunofluorescence staining. Finally, tests for visual function using optokinetic response (OKR) showed no consistent OKR in rbpr2 <sup>-/-</sup> larval zebrafish. Our analysis, therefore, suggests that Rbpr2 is capable of ROL uptake and loss of this membrane receptor in zebrafish results in photoreceptor defects that adversely affect visual function.	Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with the CFH, ARMS2, C3, LIPC, CFB, and C2 genes are associated with age-related macular degeneration (AMD); however, the association of these SNPs with angiographic features of neovascular AMD has been inconsistent in previous studies, and to date, no studies have addressed their association with features on optical coherence tomography. To evaluate the influence of genotype of SNPs previously associated with AMD on the phenotype of neovascular lesions. Participants for this cross-sectional study were recruited from the 1185 patients enrolled in the Comparison of Age-Related Macular Degeneration Treatments Trials (CATT), a randomized clinical trial. Eligibility criteria for CATT specified that eyes have choroidal neovascularization and visual acuity between 20/25 and 20/320. A subgroup of 835 patients provided blood samples from July 2010 through September 2011 and were genotyped for the SNPs rs1061170 (CFH), rs10490924 (ARMS2),rs2230199 (C3), rs10468017 (LIPC), rs4151667 (CFB), rs547154 (C2) using TaqMan SNP genotyping assays. Data analysis was initiated in November 2013 and completed in January 2016. Pretreatment ocular characteristics on fluorescein angiography (lesion type, area of neovascularization and total lesion, retinal angiomatous proliferation) and on time-domain optical coherence tomography (presence of intraretinal, subretinal, and subretinal pigment epithelium fluid; thickness at the foveal center of the retina, subretinal fluid, and subretinal tissue complex), visual acuity, and age. A total of 835 (73%) of 1150 CATT patients were genotyped. Mean age decreased with the number of risk alleles for CFH (P &lt; .001), ARMS2 (P &lt; .001), and C3 (P = .005). The following results were found as the number of risk alleles increased from 0 to 1 to 2. For CFH, mean total thickness decreased from 476 to 476 to 434 µm (P = .01; adjusted for age, sex, and smoking status). For ARMS2, the mean area of the total lesion increased from 2.0 to 2.8 to 2.4 mm2 (P = .03), the proportion with retinal angiomatous proliferation lesions increased from 8% to 10% to 12% (P = .05), and the proportion with intraretinal fluid increased from 72% to 71% to 82% (P = .008). For C3, the proportion with intraretinal fluid decreased from 78% to 69% to 64% (P = .001), and the mean retinal thickness decreased from 225 to 207 to 197 µm (P = .02). CFH, ARMS2, and C3 were associated with specific features of neovascularization at the time patients were enrolled in CATT. Previously identified associations of ARMS2 and CFH with type of choroidal neovascularization on fluorescein angiography were not confirmed. New associations with OCT features identified in CATT need confirmation to establish whether a true association exists. clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00593450.	Inherited retinal disorders (IRDs) result in severe visual impairments in children and adults. A challenge in the field of retinal degenerations is identifying mechanisms of photoreceptor cell death related to specific genetic mutations. Mutations in the gene TULP1 have been associated with two forms of IRDs, early-onset retinitis pigmentosa (RP) and Leber congenital amaurosis (LCA). TULP1 is a cytoplasmic, membrane-associated protein shown to be involved in transportation of newly synthesized proteins destined for the outer segment compartment of photoreceptor cells; however, how mutant TULP1 causes cell death is not understood. In this study, we provide evidence that common missense mutations in TULP1 express as misfolded protein products that accumulate within the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) causing prolonged ER stress. In an effort to maintain protein homeostasis, photoreceptor cells then activate the unfolded protein response (UPR) complex. Our results indicate that the two major apoptotic arms of the UPR pathway, PERK and IRE1, are activated. Additionally, we show that retinas expressing mutant TULP1 significantly upregulate the expression of CHOP, a UPR signaling protein promoting apoptosis, and undergo photoreceptor cell death. Our study demonstrates that the ER-UPR, a known mechanism of apoptosis secondary to an overwhelming accumulation of misfolded protein, is involved in photoreceptor degeneration caused by missense mutations in TULP1. These observations suggest that modulating the UPR pathways might be a strategy for therapeutic intervention. 	Photoreceptors (PRs) are highly polarized and compartmentalized cells with large amounts of proteins synthesized in the inner segment (IS) and transported to the outer segment (OS) and synaptic terminal. The PR-specific protein, Tulp1, is localized to the IS and synapse and is hypothesized to be involved in protein trafficking. To better understand the molecular processes that regulate protein trafficking in PRs, we aimed to identify compartment-specific Tulp1 binding partners. Serial tangential sectioning of Long Evans rat retinas was utilized to isolate the IS and synaptic PR compartments. Tulp1 binding partners in each of these layers were identified using co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP) with Tulp1 antibodies. The co-IP eluates were separated by SDS-PAGE, trypsinized into peptide fragments, and proteins were identified by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry. In the IS, potential Tulp1-binding partners included cytoskeletal scaffold proteins, protein trafficking molecules, as well as members of the phototransduction cascade. In the synaptic region, the majority of interacting proteins identified were cytoskeletal. A separate subset of proteins were identified in both the IS and synapse including chaperones and family members of the GTPase activating proteins. Tulp1 has two distinct PR compartment-specific interactomes. Our results support the hypothesis that Tulp1 is involved in the trafficking of proteins from the IS to the OS and the continuous membrane remodeling and vesicle cycling at the synaptic terminal. 	Mutations in the TULP1 gene are associated with early-onset retinitis pigmentosa (RP); however, the molecular mechanisms related to the deleterious effects of TULP1 mutations remains unknown. Several studies have shown that misfolded proteins secondary to genetic mutations can accumulate within the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), causing activation of the unfolded protein response (UPR) complex followed by cellular apoptosis. We hypothesize that TULP1 mutations produce misfolded protein products that accumulate in the ER and induce cellular apoptosis via the UPR. To test our hypothesis, we first performed three in-silico analyses of TULP1 missense mutations (I459K, R420P and F491L), which predicted misfolded protein products. Subsequently, the three mutant TULP1-GFP constructs and wild-type (wt) TULP1-GFP were transiently transfected into hTERT-RPE-1 cells. Staining of cells using ER tracker followed by confocal microscopy showed wt-TULP1 localized predominantly to the cytoplasm and plasma membrane. In contrast, all three mutant TULP1 proteins revealed cytoplasmic punctate staining which co-localized with the ER. Furthermore, western blot analysis of cells expressing mutant TULP1 proteins revealed induction of downstream targets of the ER-UPR complex, including BiP/GPR-78, phosphorylated-PERK (Thr980) and CHOP. Our in-vitro analyses suggest that mutant TULP1 proteins are misfolded and accumulate within the ER leading to induction of the UPR stress response complex. 	To evaluate the histopathology in donor eyes from patients with autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa (ADRP) caused by p.P23H, p.P347T and p.P347L rhodopsin ( RHO ) gene mutations. Eyes from a 72-year-old male (donor 1), an 83-year-old female (donor 2), an 80-year-old female (donor 3), and three age-similar normal eyes were examined macroscopically, by scanning laser ophthalmoscopy and optical coherence tomography imaging. Perifoveal and peripheral pieces were processed for microscopy and immunocytochemistry with markers for photoreceptor cells. DNA analysis revealed RHO mutations c.68C&gt;A (p.P23H) in donor 1, c.1040C&gt;T (p.P347L) in donor 2 and c.1039C&gt;A (p.P347T) in donor 3. Histology of the ADRP eyes showed retinas with little evidence of stratified nuclear layers in the periphery and a prominent inner nuclear layer present in the perifoveal region in the p.P23H and p.P347T eyes, while it was severely atrophic in the p.P347L eye. The p.P23H and p.P347T mutations cause a profound loss of rods in both the periphery and perifovea, while the p.P347L mutation displays near complete absence of rods in both regions. All three rhodopsin mutations caused a profound loss of cones in the periphery. The p.P23H and p.P347T mutations led to the presence of highly disorganized cones in the perifovea. However, the p.P347L mutation led to near complete absence of cones also in the perifovea. Our results support clinical findings indicating that mutations affecting residue P347 develop more severe phenotypes than those affecting P23. Furthermore, our results indicate a more severe phenotype in the p.P347L retina as compared to the p.P347T retina.	A previously published study demonstrated a pharmacogenetic association between the minor alleles of 2 VEGFR2 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and greater improvement in visual acuity (VA) to treatment with ranibizumab, an anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) drug, in patients with neovascular age-related macular degeneration (AMD). We evaluated whether this association was replicated among patients who participated in the Comparison of AMD Treatments Trials (CATT) or the Alternative Treatments to Inhibit VEGF in Patients with Age-Related Choroidal Neovascularisation (IVAN) trial. Cohort studies within randomized clinical trials. Eight hundred thirty-five patients participating in CATT and 512 patients participating in IVAN. Each patient was genotyped for the SNPs rs4576072 and rs6828477 in the VEGFR2 gene. Mean change in VA from baseline to 1 year after initiation of treatment with ranibizumab or bevacizumab. Differences in VA response between the patient group homozygous for the minor allele of each SNP and the other genotype groups were evaluated with analysis of variance. Differences in VA response by the number of minor alleles present for either SNP or both combined were evaluated with tests of linear trend. Analyses were conducted separately for CATT and IVAN participants and with both the studies combined. No statistically significant difference in mean change in VA was identified between genotypes of either SNP (P ≥ 0.05). Furthermore, a stepwise analysis failed to show a significant interaction for either SNP based on the number of minor alleles present. The lack of association was similar in both the CATT and IVAN cohorts and whether the analysis combined patients treated with either ranibizumab or bevacizumab or when restricted to patients treated with ranibizumab only. The CATT and IVAN data do not support a pharmacogenetic association between the 2 VEGFR2 SNPs, rs4576072 and rs6828477, and change in VA in response to anti-VEGF therapy in patients with neovascular AMD.	To evaluate the retinal histopathology in donor eyes from patients with autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa (arRP) caused by EYS mutations. Eyes from a 72-year-old female (donor 1, family 1), a 91-year-old female (donor 2, family 2), and her 97-year-old sister (donor 3, family 2) were evaluated with macroscopic, scanning laser ophthalmoscopy (SLO) and optical coherence tomography (OCT) imaging. Age-similar normal eyes and an eye donated by donor 1's asymptomatic mother (donor 4, family 1) were used as controls. The perifovea and peripheral retina were processed for microscopy and immunocytochemistry with markers for cone and rod photoreceptor cells. DNA analysis revealed EYS mutations c.2259 + 1G &gt; A and c.2620C &gt; T (p.Q874X) in family 1, and c.4350_4356del (p.I1451Pfs*3) and c.2739-?_3244 + ?del in family 2. Imaging studies revealed the presence of bone spicule pigment in arRP donor retinas. Histology of all three affected donor eyes showed very thin retinas with little evidence of stratified nuclear layers in the periphery. In contrast, the perifovea displayed a prominent inner nuclear layer. Immunocytochemistry analysis demonstrated advanced retinal degenerative changes in all eyes, with near-total absence of rod photoreceptors. In addition, we found that the perifoveal cones were more preserved in retinas from the donor with the midsize genomic rearrangement (c.4350_4356del (p.I1451Pfs*3) and c.2739-?_3244 + ?del) than in retinas from the donors with the truncating (c.2259 + 1G &gt; A and c.2620C &gt; T (p.Q874X) mutations. Advanced retinal degenerative changes with near-total absence of rods and preservation of some perifoveal cones are observed in arRP donor retinas with EYS mutations. 	NA	NA
Hajjar, Adeline	Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences	29020088	25350459	25229618	23071439	16936244	16100080	15321997	11912497	11123271	9666021	To address the role of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) in lipopolysaccharide (LPS) recognition, we generated mice that differed only in the sequence of TLR4. We used a bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) transgenic approach and TLR4/MD-2 knockout mice to specifically examine the role of human TLR4 variants in recognition of LPS. Using in vitro and in vivo assays we found that the expression level rather than the sequence of TLR4 played a larger role in recognition of LPS, especially hypoacylated LPS.	The lysosomal membrane transporter, Nramp1, plays a key role in innate immunity and resistance to infection with intracellular pathogens such as non-typhoidal Salmonella (NTS). NTS-susceptible C57BL/6 (B6) mice, which express the mutant Nramp1D169 allele, are unable to control acute infection with Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium following intraperitoneal or oral inoculation. Introducing functional Nramp1G169 into the B6 host background, either by constructing a congenic strain carrying Nramp1G169 from resistant A/J mice (Nramp-Cg) or overexpressing Nramp1G169 from a transgene (Nramp-Tg), conferred equivalent protection against acute Salmonella infection. In contrast, the contributions of Nramp1 for controlling chronic infection are more complex, involving temporal and anatomical differences in Nramp1-dependent host responses. Nramp-Cg, Nramp-Tg and NTS-resistant 129×1/SvJ mice survived oral Salmonella infection equally well for the first 2-3 weeks, providing evidence that Nramp1 contributes to the initial control of NTS bacteremia preceding establishment of chronic Salmonella infection. By day 30, increased host Nramp1 expression (Tg&gt;Cg) provided greater protection as indicated by decreased splenic bacterial colonization (Tg&lt;Cg). However, despite controlling bacterial growth within MLN as effectively as 129×1/SvJ mice, Nramp-Cg and Nramp-Tg mice eventually succumbed to infection. These data indicate: 1) discrete, anatomically localized host resistance is conferred by Nramp1 expression in NTS-susceptible mice, 2) restriction of systemic bacterial growth in the spleens of NTS-susceptible mice is enhanced by Nramp1 expression and dose-dependent, and 3) host genes other than Nramp1 also contribute to the ability of NTS-resistant 129×1/SvJ mice to control bacterial replication during chronic infection. 	A humanized TLR7/TLR8 transgenic mouse line was engineered for studies using TLR7/8 ligands as vaccine adjuvants. The mice developed a spontaneous immune-mediated phenotype prior to six months of age characterized by runting, lethargy, blepharitis, and corneal ulceration. Histological examination revealed a marked, multisystemic histiocytic infiltrate that effaced normal architecture. The histological changes were distinct from those previously reported in mouse models of systemic lupus erythematosus. When the mice were crossed with MyD88-/- mice, which prevented toll-like receptor signaling, the inflammatory phenotype resolved. Illness may be caused by constitutive activation of human TLR7 or TLR8 in the bacterial artificial chromosome positive mice as increased TLR7 and TLR8 expression or activation has previously been implicated in autoimmune disease. 	Although lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulation through the Toll-like receptor (TLR)-4/MD-2 receptor complex activates host defense against Gram-negative bacterial pathogens, how species-specific differences in LPS recognition impact host defense remains undefined. Herein, we establish how temperature dependent shifts in the lipid A of Yersinia pestis LPS that differentially impact recognition by mouse versus human TLR4/MD-2 dictate infection susceptibility. When grown at 37°C, Y. pestis LPS is hypo-acylated and less stimulatory to human compared with murine TLR4/MD-2. By contrast, when grown at reduced temperatures, Y. pestis LPS is more acylated, and stimulates cells equally via human and mouse TLR4/MD-2. To investigate how these temperature dependent shifts in LPS impact infection susceptibility, transgenic mice expressing human rather than mouse TLR4/MD-2 were generated. We found the increased susceptibility to Y. pestis for &quot;humanized&quot; TLR4/MD-2 mice directly paralleled blunted inflammatory cytokine production in response to stimulation with purified LPS. By contrast, for other Gram-negative pathogens with highly acylated lipid A including Salmonella enterica or Escherichia coli, infection susceptibility and the response after stimulation with LPS were indistinguishable between mice expressing human or mouse TLR4/MD-2. Thus, Y. pestis exploits temperature-dependent shifts in LPS acylation to selectively evade recognition by human TLR4/MD-2 uncovered with &quot;humanized&quot; TLR4/MD-2 transgenic mice.	Activation of pulmonary defenses against Pseudomonas aeruginosa requires myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88), an adaptor for Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling. To determine which TLRs mediate recognition of P. aeruginosa, we measured cytokine responses of bone marrow cells from wild-type mice and mice lacking TLR2 (TLR2(-/-)), TLR4 (TLR4(-/-)), TLR2 and TLR4 (TLR2/4(-/-)), or MyD88 (MyD88(-/-)) to wild-type P. aeruginosa and to fliC P. aeruginosa, which lacks the TLR5 ligand flagellin. Mice also were challenged with aerosolized bacteria to determine cytokine responses, lung inflammation, and bacterial clearance. TNF induction required MyD88 and was absent in TLR2/4(-/-) cells in response to fliC but not wild-type P. aeruginosa, whereas TLR2(-/-) cells exhibited augmented responses. In vivo, TLR4(-/-) mice responded to wild-type P. aeruginosa with reduced cytokine production and inflammation, but intact bacterial clearance, while TLR2(-/-) mice had partially impaired cytokine responses and delayed bacterial killing despite normal inflammation. When challenged with fliC, MyD88(-/-) mice failed to mount early cytokine and inflammatory responses or control bacterial replication, resulting in necrotizing lung injury and lethal disseminated infection. TLR4(-/-) and TLR2/4(-/-) mice responded to fliC infection with severely limited inflammatory and cytokine responses but intact bacterial clearance. TLR2(-/-) mice had partially reduced cytokine responses but augmented inflammation and preserved bacterial killing. These data indicate that TLR4- and flagellin-induced signals mediate most of the acute inflammatory response to Pseudomonas and that TLR2 has a counterregulatory role. However, MyD88-dependent pathways, in addition to those downstream of TLR2, TLR4, and TLR5, are required for pulmonary defense against P. aeruginosa.	MyD88 is an adapter protein required for the induction of proinflammatory cytokines by most Toll-like receptors (TLR), and Pseudomonas aeruginosa expresses ligands for multiple TLRs. MyD88(-/-) (KO) mice are highly susceptible to aerosolized P. aeruginosa, failing to elicit an early inflammatory response and permitting a 3-log increase in bacterial CFU in the lungs by 24 h after infection. We hypothesized that alveolar macrophages are the first cells to recognize and kill aerosolized P. aeruginosa in an MyD88-dependent fashion due to their location within the airways. To determine which cells in the lungs mediate MyD88-dependent defenses against P. aeruginosa, we generated radiation bone marrow (BM) chimeras between MyD88KO and wild-type (WT) mice. MyD88KO mice transplanted with MyD88KO BM (MyD88KO--&gt;MyD88KO mice) displayed uncontrolled bacterial replication, whereas all other chimeras controlled the infection by 24 h. However, at 4 h, both MyD88KO--&gt;MyD88KO and WT--&gt;MyD88KO mice permitted intrapulmonary bacterial replication, whereas MyD88KO--&gt;WT and WT--&gt;WT mice did not, indicating that the source of BM had little impact on the early control of infection. Similarly, the genotype of the recipient rather than that of the BM donor determined early neutrophil recruitment to the lungs. Whereas intrapulmonary TNF-alpha and IL-1beta production were associated with WT BM, levels of the CXC chemokines MIP-2 and KC as well as GM-CSF were associated with recipient genotype. We conclude that lung parenchymal and BM-derived cells collaborate in the MyD88-dependent response to P. aeruginosa infection in the lungs in mice.	The innate host response to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) obtained from Porphyromonas gingivalis is unusual in that different studies have reported that it can be an agonist for Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) as well as an antagonist or agonist for TLR4. In this report it is shown that P. gingivalis LPS is highly heterogeneous, containing more lipid A species than previously described. In addition, purification of LPS can preferentially fractionate these lipid A species. It is shown that an LPS preparation enriched for lipid A species at m/z 1,435 and 1,450 activates human and mouse TLR2, TLR2 plus TLR1, and TLR4 in transiently transfected HEK 293 cells coexpressing membrane-associated CD14. The HEK cell experiments further demonstrated that cofactor MD-2 was required for functional engagement of TLR4 but not of TLR2 nor TLR2 plus TLR1. In addition, serum-soluble CD14 effectively transferred P. gingivalis LPS to TLR2 plus TLR1, but poorly to TLR4. Importantly, bone marrow cells obtained from TLR2(-/-) and TLR4(-/-) mice also responded to P. gingivalis LPS in a manor consistent with the HEK results, demonstrating that P. gingivalis LPS can utilize both TLR2 and TLR4. No response was observed from bone marrow cells obtained from TLR2 and TLR4 double-knockout mice, demonstrating that P. gingivalis LPS activation occurred exclusively through either TLR2 or TLR4. Although the biological significance of the different lipid A species found in P. gingivalis LPS preparations is not currently understood, it is proposed that the presence of multiple lipid A species contributes to cell activation through both TLR2 and TLR4.	Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) is the principal proinflammatory component of the Gram-negative bacterial envelope and is recognized by the Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)-MD-2 receptor complex. Bacteria can alter the acylation state of their LPS in response to environmental changes. One opportunistic bacterium, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, synthesizes more highly acylated (hexa-acylated) LPS structures during adaptation to the cystic fibrosis airway. Here we show that human, but not murine, TLR4-MD-2 recognizes this adaptation and transmits robust proinflammatory signals in response to hexa-acylated but not penta-acylated LPS from P. aeruginosa. Whereas responses to lipidIVA and taxol are dependent on murine MD-2, discrimination of P. aeruginosa LPS structures is mediated by an 82-amino-acid region of human TLR4 that is hypervariable across species. Thus, in contrast to mice, humans use TLR4 to recognize a molecular signature of bacterial-host adaptation to modulate the innate immune response.	Toll-like receptor (TLR) 2 and TLR4 play important roles in the early, innate immune response to microbial challenge. TLR2 is preferentially involved in the inflammatory response to lipoteichoic acid, lipopeptides, and glycans from a variety of microbes, whereas TLR4 is essential for a complete response to LPSs. We report here that TLR2 transduces the response to phenol-soluble modulin, a factor secreted by Staphylococcus epidermidis. The TLR2-mediated response to this modulin was enhanced by TLR6 but inhibited by TLR1, indicating a functional interaction between these receptors. We also demonstrate that a response to phenol-soluble modulin mediated by TLR2 and TLR6 was more refractory to inhibition by TLR1 than one mediated by TLR2 alone.	An efficient method for the isolation of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) nucleic acids from dry cervical swabs was developed. HIV-1 gag and env were detected in 96% (25 of 26) and 81% (21 of 26), respectively, of the samples tested by PCR from HIV-1-seropositive women in a Kenyan cohort study. Eighty-eight percent of the swabs (22 of 25) were positive for gag RNA, and 85% (17 of 20) were positive for env RNA. Fewer than 1,000 copies of HIV-1 gag RNA were detected in four swabs in which a competitive quantitative PCR assay was used. The method described here may be useful for both qualitative and quantitative analyses of HIV RNA in mucosal secretions as well as amplification and cloning of full-length viral genes for functional studies.
Hamilton, Thomas	Inflammation and Immunity	26134251	25484881	24920846	23519936	22167720	21822258	20430641	20080976	20042592	19155515	Cellular stress enhances inflammatory cytokine gene expression by inducing cEBP homologous protein (CHOP). Engaging cell stress via thapsigargin induced CHOP and selectively prolonged lipopolysaccharide-stimulated interleukin-6 (IL-6) expression in bone marrow-derived macrophages from wild-type (WT) but not CHOP knockout (KO) mice. To determine the impact of this mechanism in vivo we employed dextran sodium sulfate (DSS)-induced colitis in irradiated mice reconstituted with bone marrow from WT or CHOP KO mice. WT recipients of CHOP KO bone marrow exhibited more rapid recovery from disease than did mice reconstituted with WT bone marrow as reflected in increased survival, reduced clinical scores, and colonic histopathology. No differences in mesenteric lymph node cell populations were observed between mice with WT or CHOP KO bone marrow during colitis. CD11b(+) macrophages infiltrating the lamina propria were, however, reduced in DSS-treated mice reconstituted with CHOP KO bone marrow. CHOP expression was observed within the infiltrating inflammatory CD11b(+) macrophages. Furthermore, IL-6 expression within the inflamed colon was significantly lower in mice with CHOP-deficient bone marrow. Our findings indicate that CHOP expression in myeloid cells plays an important role in determining the magnitude and duration of inflammatory response in vivo by modulating expression of proinflammatory cytokines such as IL-6 in infiltrating macrophages. 	The scope of functional heterogeneity in macrophages has been defined by two polarized end states known as M1 and M2, which exhibit the proinflammatory activities necessary for host defense and the tissue repair activities required for restoration of homeostasis, respectively. Macrophage populations in different tissue locations exist in distinct phenotypic states across this M1/M2 spectrum and the development and abundance of individual subsets result from the local and systemic action of myeloid colony-stimulating factors (CSFs) including M-CSF and GM-CSF. These factors have relatively non-overlapping roles in the differentiation and maintenance of specific macrophage subsets. Furthermore, there is now evidence that CSFs may also regulate macrophage phenotype during challenge. Cell culture studies from multiple laboratories demonstrate that macrophages developed in the presence of GM-CSF exhibit amplified response to M1 polarizing stimuli while M-CSF potentiates responses to M2 stimuli. As a consequence, these factors can be important determinants of the magnitude and duration of both acute and chronic inflammatory pathology and may, therefore, be potential targets for therapeutic manipulation in specific human disease settings. 	The impact of environmental stressors on the magnitude of specific chemokine gene expression was examined in mouse bone marrow-derived macrophages stimulated through various TLRs. Levels of TLR-stimulated CXCL1 and CXCL2 but not CXCL10 or CCL5 mRNAs were selectively enhanced (&gt;10-fold) in stressed macrophages. The amplification was also manifested for other proinflammatory cytokines, including TNF-α, IL-1α, and IL-6. Responses through TLR3 and TLR4 exhibited the greatest sensitivity, reflecting a requirement for Toll/IL-IR domain-containing adaptor-inducing IFN-β (TRIF), the adaptor protein selectively associated with these TLRs. IFN regulatory factor 3, a transcription factor that is downstream of TLR4/TRIF signaling, was not required for sensitivity to stress-induced chemokine amplification. c/EBP homologous protein and X box binding protein 1 have been reported to enhance inflammatory cytokine responses but are not required for amplification of TLR3/4-induced CXCL1 expression. Rather, receptor-interacting protein kinase 1, a kinase also linked with TLR3/4/TRIF signaling, is required and involves a stress-dependent increase in its abundance and ubiquitination. Whereas NF-κB activation is necessary for TLR-induced chemokine gene transcription, this factor does not appear to be the primary mechanistic target of environmental stress. The application of stress also enhanced chemokine expression in macrophages infiltrating the peritoneal cavity but was not observed in the resident peritoneal cells or in the liver. These findings identify novel mechanisms for modulating the magnitude and duration of selective TLR-induced chemokine and cytokine gene expression and further establish the importance of cell stress pathways in coordinating the outcomes of cellular and tissue injury. 	Neutrophil trafficking to sites of injury or infection is regulated, in part, by the closely related GRO family of chemokines (CXCL1, -2, and -3). Expression of the GRO chemokine genes is known to be determined by transcriptional bursts in response to proinflammatory stimulation, but post-transcriptional mechanisms that regulate mRNA half-life are now recognized as important determinants. mRNA half-life is regulated via distinct sequence motifs and sequence-specific, RNA-binding proteins, whose function is subject to regulation by extracellular proinflammatory stimuli. Moreover, such mechanisms exhibit cell-type and stimulus dependency. We now present evidence that in nonmyeloid cells, GRO2 and GRO3 isoforms exhibit at least two patterns of mRNA instability that are distinguished by differential sensitivity to specific mRNA-destabilizing proteins and stimulus-mediated prolongation of mRNA half-life, respectively. Although the 3' UTR regions of GRO2 and GRO3 mRNAs contain multiple AREs, GRO2 has eight AUUUA pentamers, whereas GRO3 has seven. These confer quantitative differences in half-life and show sensitivity for TTP and KSRP but not SF2/ASF. Moreover, these AUUUA determinants do not confer instability that can be modulated in response to IL-1α. In contrast, IL-1α-sensitive instability for GRO2 and GRO3 is conferred by sequences located proximal to the 3' end of the 3'UTR that are independent of the AUUUA sequence motif. These regions are insensitive to TTP and KSRP but show reduced half-life mediated by SF2/ASF. These sequence-linked, post-transcriptional activities provide substantial mechanistic diversity in the control of GRO family chemokine gene expression.	mRNAs encoding inflammatory chemokines that recruit neutrophils frequently exhibit short half-lives that serve to limit their expression under inappropriate conditions but are often prolonged to ensure adequate levels during inflammatory response. Extracellular stimuli that modulate the stability of such mRNAs may be the same as the transcriptional activator, as is the case with TLR ligands, or may cooperate with independent transcriptional stimuli, as with IL-17, which extends the half-life of TNF-induced transcripts. These different stimuli engage independent signaling pathways that target different instability mechanisms distinguished by dependence on different regulatory nucleotide sequence motifs within the 3'UTRs, which involve that action of different mRNA-binding proteins. The selective use of these pathways by different stimuli and in distinct cell populations provides the potential for tailoring of chemokine expression patterns to meet specific needs in different pathophysiologic circumstances.	Interleukin 17 (IL-17) promotes the expression of chemokines and cytokines via the induction of gene transcription and post-transcriptional stabilization of mRNA. We show here that IL-17 enhanced the stability of chemokine CXCL1 mRNA and other mRNAs through a pathway that involved the adaptor Act1, the adaptors TRAF2 or TRAF5 and the splicing factor SF2 (also known as alternative splicing factor (ASF)). TRAF2 and TRAF5 were necessary for IL-17 to signal the stabilization of CXCL1 mRNA. Furthermore, IL-17 promoted the formation of complexes of TRAF5-TRAF2, Act1 and SF2 (ASF). Overexpression of SF2 (ASF) shortened the half-life of CXCL1 mRNA, whereas depletion of SF2 (ASF) prolonged it. SF2 (ASF) bound chemokine mRNA in unstimulated cells, whereas the SF2 (ASF)-mRNA interaction was much lower after stimulation with IL-17. Our findings define an IL-17-induced signaling pathway that links to the stabilization of selected mRNA species through Act1, TRAF2-TRAF5 and the RNA-binding protein SF2 (ASF).	Regulation of neutrophil chemokine gene expression represents an important feature in tissue inflammation. While chemokine gene transcription through the action of NFkappaB is recognized as an essential component of this process, it is now clear that post-transcriptional mechanisms, particularly the rates of decay of mature cytoplasmic mRNA, provides an essential component of this control. Chemokine and other cytokine mRNA half life is known to be controlled via adenine-uridine rich sequence motifs localized within 3' untranslated regions (UTRs), the most common of which contains one or more copies of the pentameric AUUUA sequence. In myeloid cells AUUUA sequences confer instability through the action of RNA binding proteins such as tristetraprolin (TTP). The resulting instability can be regulated in response to extra-cellular stimuli including Toll like receptor ligands that signal to control the function of TTP through pathways involving the activation of p38 MAP kinases. Recent findings indicate that substantial mechanistic diversity is operative in non-myeloid cells in response to alternate pro-inflammatory stimuli such as IL-17. These pathways target distinct instability sequences that do not contain the AUUUA pentamer motif, do not signal through p38 MAPK, and function independently of TTP.	In this report, we demonstrate that cellular stress regulates expression of IFRD1 by a post-transcriptional control mechanism. IFRD1 mRNA and protein are elevated in tunicamycin-treated human kidney epithelial cells via stabilization of the mRNA. IFRD1 mRNA instability in resting cells requires translation of an upstream open reading frame (ORF) that represses translation of the major ORF. During stress response, the mRNA is stabilized via inhibition of translational initiation mediated by phosphorylated eIF2alpha. Translation of the major ORF of IFRD1 involves both leaky scanning at the upstream AUG codon and re-initiation at the major AUG codon and is not altered during stress. Finally, the instability mechanism depends upon UPF1, suggesting that it is related to nonsense-mediated decay. Importantly, the sequence and length of the upstream ORF are critical but do not need to code for a specific peptide. Moreover the sequence environment of the upstream ORF termination site is not an essential feature of instability. These features of decay collectively define a distinct upstream ORF-mediated instability mechanism whereby cellular stress can modulate specific gene expression through alteration of mRNA half-life.	IL-17 contributes to inflammatory response in part by promoting enhanced expression of chemokines, such as CXCL1, by prolonging the t(1/2) of this constitutively unstable mRNA. Although IL-17 is a weak stimulus for transcription of the CXCL1 gene, it strongly potentiates message accumulation via stabilization when the mRNA is transcribed in cells stimulated with TNF. In myeloid cells, LPS-induced CXCL1 mRNA stabilization is dependent on AUUUA-containing sequence motifs that are recognized by the RNA binding protein tristetraprolin (TTP). Using deletion and site-specific mutagenesis, we report that IL-17-mediated stabilization of CXCL1 mRNA in nonmyeloid cells depends on a sequence that does not contain the AUUUA motif. Furthermore, a specific two-nucleotide mutation within this region markedly abrogates sensitivity for IL-17-mediated stabilization. Consistent with this finding, the IL-17-sensitive sequence does not exhibit increased instability in the presence of TTP, and CXCL1 mRNA remains unstable and can be stabilized in response to treatment with IL-17 in embryo fibroblasts from mice in which the TTP gene has been deleted. Whereas the RNA binding protein KSRP has been shown to participate in regulating the instability of human CXCL8 mRNA, inhibitory RNA-based reduction in KSRP does not effect the instability mediated by the IL-17-sensitive sequence motif. These findings suggest that IL-17-mediated chemokine mRNA stabilization in nonmyeloid cells uses a mechanism that is distinct from that operating to control AU-rich mRNA stability in myeloid cells.	IL-17 alone is a relatively weak inducer of gene expression, but cooperates with other cytokines, including TNF-alpha, to generate a strong response in part via prolongation of mRNA t(1/2). Because TNFR-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) has been reported to be essential for signaling by IL-17, we examined its involvement in IL-17-mediated mRNA stabilization. Although overexpression of TRAF6 in HeLa cells activates NF-kappaB, it does not stabilize transfected KC mRNA. Furthermore, a dominant-negative TRAF6 abrogates NF-kappaB activation, but does not block IL-17-induced chemokine mRNA stabilization. IL-17 can stabilize KC and MIP-2 mRNAs comparably in TNF-alpha-treated mouse embryo fibroblasts from TRAF6(+/+) and TRAF6(-/-) mice. TRAF6 is known to couple upstream signals with activation of p38 MAPK and mitogen activated protein kinase activated protein kinase 2, both of which have been shown to be important for Toll/IL-1R-mediated mRNA stabilization in various cell types. Inhibition of p38 MAPK, however, does not block IL-17-induced KC mRNA stabilization, and IL-17 can stabilize KC mRNA equally in mouse embryo fibroblasts from both wild-type and mitogen activated protein kinase activated protein kinase 2/3 doubly-deficient mice. Finally, IL-17 can amplify the levels of multiple TNF-alpha-stimulated mRNAs in wild-type and TRAF6-deficient cells, but not in cells from Act1(-/-) mice. Collectively, these findings demonstrate the existence of a TRAF6/p38 MAPK-independent pathway that couples the IL-17R with enhanced mRNA stability. Because the most potent effects of IL-17 on gene expression are obtained in cooperation with other cytokines such as TNF-alpha, these findings suggest that this pathway is a major contributing mechanism for response to IL-17.
Hascall, Vincent	Biomedical Engineering	30723159	30710015	25892563	25325979	24569987	24486448	24482224	23129777	19550149	19346253	Mesangial expansion underlies diabetic nephropathy, leading to sclerosis and renal failure. The glycosaminoglycan heparin inhibits mesangial cell growth, but the molecular mechanism is unclear. Here, rat mesangial cells (RMCs) were growth-arrested in the G0/G1 phase of cell division, stimulated to divide in normal glucose (5.6 mm) or high glucose (25.6 mm) with or without heparin, and analyzed for glucose uptake. We observed that RMCs entering the G1 phase in normal glucose with or without heparin rapidly cease glucose uptake. RMCs entering G1 in high glucose sustained glucose uptake for the first 3 h, and high-glucose exposure of RMCs only in the first 8 h of G1 induced the formation of an extracellular monocyte-adhesive hyaluronan matrix after cell division was completed. Moreover, a low heparin concentration under high-glucose conditions blocked glucose uptake by 1 h into G1 Of note, glucose transporter 4 (glut4) localized on the RMC surface at G0/G1 and was internalized into G1 cells under normal glucose conditions with or without heparin within 30 min. We also noted that, under high-glucose conditions, glut4 remained on the RMC surface for at least 2 h into G1 and was internalized by 4 h without heparin and within 1 h with heparin. These results provide evidence that the influx of glucose in hyperglycemic dividing RMCs initiates intermediate glucose metabolism, leading to increased cytosolic UDP sugars, and induces abnormal intracellular hyaluronan synthesis during the S phase of cell division.	Hyaluronan has a very simple structure. It is a linear glycosaminoglycan composed of disaccharide units of GlcNAc and d-glucuronic acid with alternating β-1,4 and β-1,3 glycosidic bonds that can be repeated 20,000 or more times, a molecular mass &gt;8 million Da, and a length &gt;20 μm. However, it has a very complex biology. It is a major, ubiquitous component of extracellular matrices involved in everything from fertilization, development, inflammations, to cancer. This JBC Review highlights some of these processes that were initiated through publications in the Journal of Biological Chemistry.	Previous studies and ongoing research indicate the importance of an interaction between a putative receptor on dividing cells in hyperglycemia and the non-reducing end motifs of heparin stored in mast cell secretory granules and how this interaction prevents activation of hyaluronan synthesis in intracellular compartments and subsequent autophagy. This suggests a new role for endosomal heparanase in exposing this cryptic motif present in the initial large heparin chains on serglycin and in the highly sulfated (NS) domains of heparan sulfate. 	During inflammation and developmental processes, heavy chains (HCs) from inter-α-inhibitor (IαI) are covalently transferred to hyaluronan (HA) via the enzyme tumor-necrosis-factor-stimulated-gene 6 (TSG-6) to form a HC-HA complex. In this manuscript, we describe a gel-based assay to detect HC-HA and TSG-6 activity in tissues. 	Isolated rat bone marrow stromal cells cultured in osteogenic medium in which the normal 5.6 mm glucose is changed to hyperglycemic 25.6 mm glucose greatly increase lipid formation between 21-31 days of culture that is associated with decreased biomineralization, up-regulate expression of cyclin D3 and two adipogenic markers (CCAAT/enhancer binding protein α and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ) within 5 days of culture, increase neutral and polar lipid synthesis within 5 days of culture, and form a monocyte-adhesive hyaluronan matrix through an endoplasmic reticulum stress-induced autophagic mechanism. Evidence is also provided that, by 4 weeks after diabetes onset in the streptozotocin-induced diabetic rat model, there is a large loss of trabecular bone mineral density without apparent proportional changes in underlying collagen matrices, a large accumulation of a hyaluronan matrix within the trabecular bone marrow, and adipocytes and macrophages embedded in this hyaluronan matrix. These results support the hypothesis that hyperglycemia in bone marrow diverts dividing osteoblastic precursor cells (bone marrow stromal cells) to a metabolically stressed adipogenic pathway that induces synthesis of a hyaluronan matrix that recruits inflammatory cells and establishes a chronic inflammatory process that demineralizes trabecular cancellous bone. 	Hyaluronan, a macromolecular glycosaminoglycan, is normally synthesized by hyaluronan synthases at the plasma membrane using cytosolic UDP-GlcUA and UDP-GlcNAc substrates and extruding the elongating chain into the extracellular space. The cellular metabolism (synthesis and catabolism) of hyaluronan is dynamic. UDP-GlcNAc is also the substrate for O-GlcNAc transferase, which is central to the control of many cytosolic pathways. This Perspective outlines recent data for regulation of hyaluronan synthesis and catabolism that support a model that hyaluronan metabolism can be a rheostat for controlling an acceptable normal range of cytosolic UDP-GlcNAc concentrations in order to maintain normal cell functions. 	Growth-arrested rat mesangial cells (RMCs) at a G0/G1 interphase stimulated to divide in hyperglycemic medium initiate intracellular hyaluronan synthesis that induces autophagy/cyclin D3-induced formation of a monocyte-adhesive extracellular hyaluronan matrix after completing cell division. This study shows that heparin inhibits the intracellular hyaluronan synthesis and autophagy responses, but at the end of cell division it induces synthesis of a much larger extracellular monocyte-adhesive hyaluronan matrix. Heparin bound to RMC surfaces by 1 h, internalizes into the Golgi/endoplasmic reticulum region by 2 h, and was nearly gone by 4 h. Treatment by heparin for only the first 4 h was sufficient for its function. Streptozotocin diabetic rats treated daily with heparin showed similar results. Glomeruli in sections of diabetic kidneys showed extensive accumulation of autophagic RMCs, increased hyaluronan matrix, and influx of macrophages over 6 weeks. Hyaluronan staining in the glomeruli of heparin-treated diabetic rats was very high at week 1 and decreased to near control level by 6 weeks without any RMC autophagy. However, the influx of macrophages by 6 weeks was as pronounced as in diabetic glomeruli. The results are as follows: 1) heparin blocks synthesis of hyaluronan in intracellular compartments, which prevents the autophagy and cyclin D3 responses thereby allowing RMCs to complete cell division and sustain function; 2) interaction of heparin with RMCs in early G1 phase is sufficient to induce signaling pathway(s) for its functions; and 3) influxed macrophages effectively remove the hyaluronan matrix without inducing pro-fibrotic responses that lead to nephropathy and proteinurea in diabetic kidneys. 	We tested the hypothesis that the artificial addition of heavy chains from inter-α-inhibitor to hyaluronan (HA), by adding recombinant TSG-6 (TNF-stimulated gene-6) to the culture medium of murine airway smooth muscle (MASM) cells, would enhance leukocyte binding to HA cables produced in response to poly(I:C). As predicted, the addition of heavy chains to HA cables enhanced leukocyte adhesion to these cables, but it also had several unexpected effects. (i) It produced thicker, more pronounced HA cables. (ii) It increased the accumulation of HA in the cell-associated matrix. (iii) It decreased the amount of HA in the conditioned medium. Importantly, these effects were observed only when TSG-6 was administered in the presence of poly(I:C), and TSG-6 did not exert any effect on its own. Increased HA synthesis occurred during active, poly(I:C)-induced HA synthesis and did not occur when TSG-6 was added after poly(I:C)-induced HA synthesis was complete. MASM cells derived from TSG-6(-/-), HAS1/3(-/-), and CD44(-/-) mice amplified HA synthesis in response to poly(I:C) + TSG-6 in a manner similar to WT MASM cells, demonstrating that they are expendable in this process. We conclude that TSG-6 increases the accumulation of HA in the cell-associated matrix, partially by preventing its dissolution from the cell-associated matrix into the conditioned medium, but primarily by inducing HA synthesis.	Hyperglycemia is one of the factors that induces autophagy. Our recent studies demonstrate that dividing cells in hyperglycemic medium initiate an intracellular stress response that involves synthesis of hyaluronan and its extrusion extracellularly into structures that are recognized by inflammatory cells. During the later phase, a complex with cyclin D3, CDK4 and C/EBPalpha was observed in the hyperglycemic cultures, and cyclin D3 and C/EBPalpha colocalized in coalesced perinuclear honeycomb-like structures with embedded hyaluronan. Further, microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 (LC3), a marker for autophagy, colocalizes with these structures. These results suggest that cyclin D3 is a central coordinator that controls the organization of a complex set of proteins that regulate autophagy and subsequent formation of the monocyte-adhesive hyaluronan matrix. However, the early intracellular accumulation of hyaluronan could have a critical role in initiating or regulating these downstream events.	The importance of the pathological changes in proteoglycans has driven the need to study and design novel chemical tools to control proteoglycan synthesis. Accordingly, we tested the fluorinated analogue of glucosamine (4-fluoro-N-acetyl-glucosamine (4-F-GlcNAc)) on the synthesis of heparan sulfate (HS) and chondroitin sulfate (CS) by murine airway smooth muscle (ASM) cells in the presence of radiolabeled metabolic precursors. Secreted and cell-associated CS and HS were assessed for changes in size by Superose 6 chromatography. Treatment of ASM cells with 4-F-GlcNAc (100 microM) reduced the quantity (by 64.1-76.6%) and decreased the size of HS/CS glycosaminoglycans associated with the cell layer (K(av) shifted from 0.30 to 0.45). The quantity of CS secreted into the medium decreased by 65.7-73.0%, and the size showed a K(av) shift from 0.30 to 0.50. Treatment of ASM cells with 45 microM and 179 microM 4-F-GlcNAc in the presence of a stimulator of CS synthesis, 4-methylumbelliferyl-beta-D-xyloside, reduced the amount of the xyloside-CS chains by 65.4 and 87.0%, respectively. The size of xyloside-CS chains synthesized in the presence of 4-F-GlcNAc were only slightly larger than those with xyloside treatment alone (K(av) of 0.55 compared with that of 0.6). The effects of 4-F-GlcNAc to inhibit CS synthesis were not observed with equimolar concentrations of glucosamine. We propose that 4-F-GlcNAc inhibits CS synthesis by inhibiting 4-epimerization of UDP-GlcNAc to UDP-GalNAc, thereby depleting one of the substrates required, whereas HS elongation is inhibited by truncation when the nonreducing terminus of the growing chain is capped with 4-F-GlcNAc.
Hazen, Stanley	Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences	31023434	30940489	30689425	30535398	30530985	30410105	30359185	30082863	29981269	29777744	Despite major strides in reducing cardiovascular disease (CVD) burden with modification of classic CVD risk factors, significant residual risks remain. Recent discoveries that linked intestinal microbiota and CVD have broadened our understanding of how dietary nutrients may affect cardiovascular health and disease. Although next-generation sequencing techniques can identify gut microbial community participants and provide insights into microbial composition shifts in response to physiological responses and dietary exposures, provisions of prebiotics or probiotics have yet to show therapeutic benefit for CVD. Our evolving understanding of intestinal microbiota-derived physiological modulators (e.g., short-chain fatty acids) and pathogenic mediators (e.g., trimethylamine N-oxide) of host disease susceptibility have created novel potential therapeutic opportunities for improved cardiovascular health. This review discusses the roles of human intestinal microbiota in normal physiology, their associations with CVD susceptibilities, and the potential of modulating intestinal microbiota composition and metabolism as a novel therapeutic target for CVD.	Dietary nutrient intake and its metabolism by the gut microbiome have recently been implicated in cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk. In particular, trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO), a metabolite of the gut microbiota, has been shown to be a predictor of incident CVD events. Elevated levels of branched-chain amino acids (BCAA) have also been associated with an increased propensity for insulin resistance. To study the association of dietary intake with systemic TMAO, its nutrient precursors, and BCAA levels on fasting plasma levels of TMAO and its nutrient precursors and BCAA, we conducted an exploratory post-hoc analysis of 3 popular diets - high fat (Atkins), Mediterranean (South Beach), and very low fat (Ornish) - using plasma samples from a prior randomized, crossover study, with each isocaloric dietary phase lasting 4 weeks. Metabolites were quantified using stable isotope dilution HPLC with on-line tandem mass spectrometry. Compared to the low fat Ornish phase, the high fat Atkins dietary phase was characterized by increased levels of TMAO (3.3 vs. 1.8 μM, p = 0.01), and the BCAA valine (272.8 vs. 235.8 μM, p = 0.005) and leucine (105.9 vs. 96.4 μM, p = 0.01). The high fat Atkins dietary phase was also associated with higher levels of TMAO (3.3 vs 1.6 μM, p = 0.04), valine (272.8 vs. 240.7 μM, p = 0.004), and leucine (105.9 vs. 96.4 μM, p = 0.01) compared to baseline. These data suggest that over a 4-week interval, a saturated fat diet that is predominantly animal-based, compared to an isocaloric, low fat, predominantly plant-based diet, is associated with heightened risk for cardiometabolic derangements, as monitored by a higher plasma levels of both TMAO and BCAA.	NA	Carnitine and choline are major nutrient precursors for gut microbiota-dependent generation of the atherogenic metabolite, trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO). We performed randomized-controlled dietary intervention studies to explore the impact of chronic dietary patterns on TMAO levels, metabolism and renal excretion. Volunteers (N = 113) were enrolled in a randomized 2-arm (high- or low-saturated fat) crossover design study. Within each arm, three 4-week isocaloric diets (with washout period between each) were evaluated (all meals prepared in metabolic kitchen with 25% calories from protein) to examine the effects of red meat, white meat, or non-meat protein on TMAO metabolism. Trimethylamine N-oxide and other trimethylamine (TMA) related metabolites were quantified at the end of each diet period. A random subset (N = 13) of subjects also participated in heavy isotope tracer studies. Chronic red meat, but not white meat or non-meat ingestion, increased plasma and urine TMAO (each &gt;two-fold; P &lt; 0.0001). Red meat ingestion also significantly reduced fractional renal excretion of TMAO (P &lt; 0.05), but conversely, increased fractional renal excretion of carnitine, and two alternative gut microbiota-generated metabolites of carnitine, γ-butyrobetaine, and crotonobetaine (P &lt; 0.05). Oral isotope challenge revealed red meat or white meat (vs. non-meat) increased TMA and TMAO production from carnitine (P &lt; 0.05 each) but not choline. Dietary-saturated fat failed to impact TMAO or its metabolites. Chronic dietary red meat increases systemic TMAO levels through: (i) enhanced dietary precursors; (ii) increased microbial TMA/TMAO production from carnitine, but not choline; and (iii) reduced renal TMAO excretion. Discontinuation of dietary red meat reduces plasma TMAO within 4 weeks.	l-Carnitine, an abundant nutrient in red meat, accelerates atherosclerosis in mice via gut microbiota-dependent formation of trimethylamine (TMA) and trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO) via a multistep pathway involving an atherogenic intermediate, γ-butyrobetaine (γBB). The contribution of γBB in gut microbiota-dependent l-carnitine metabolism in humans is unknown. Omnivores and vegans/vegetarians ingested deuterium-labeled l-carnitine (d3-l-carnitine) or γBB (d9-γBB), and both plasma metabolites and fecal polymicrobial transformations were examined at baseline, following oral antibiotics, or following chronic (≥2 months) l-carnitine supplementation. Human fecal commensals capable of performing each step of the l-carnitine→γBB→TMA transformation were identified. Studies with oral d3-l-carnitine or d9-γBB before versus after antibiotic exposure revealed gut microbiota contribution to the initial 2 steps in a metaorganismal l-carnitine→γBB→TMA→TMAO pathway in subjects. Moreover, a striking increase in d3-TMAO generation was observed in omnivores over vegans/vegetarians (&gt;20-fold; P = 0.001) following oral d3-l-carnitine ingestion, whereas fasting endogenous plasma l-carnitine and γBB levels were similar in vegans/vegetarians (n = 32) versus omnivores (n = 40). Fecal metabolic transformation studies, and oral isotope tracer studies before versus after chronic l-carnitine supplementation, revealed that omnivores and vegans/vegetarians alike rapidly converted carnitine to γBB, whereas the second gut microbial transformation, γBB→TMA, was diet inducible (l-carnitine, omnivorous). Extensive anaerobic subculturing of human feces identified no single commensal capable of l-carnitine→TMA transformation, multiple community members that converted l-carnitine to γBB, and only 1 Clostridiales bacterium, Emergencia timonensis, that converted γBB to TMA. In coculture, E. timonensis promoted the complete l-carnitine→TMA transformation. In humans, dietary l-carnitine is converted into the atherosclerosis- and thrombosis-promoting metabolite TMAO via 2 sequential gut microbiota-dependent transformations: (a) initial rapid generation of the atherogenic intermediate γBB, followed by (b) transformation into TMA via low-abundance microbiota in omnivores, and to a markedly lower extent, in vegans/vegetarians. Gut microbiota γBB→TMA/TMAO transformation is induced by omnivorous dietary patterns and chronic l-carnitine exposure. ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01731236. NIH and Office of Dietary Supplements grants HL103866, HL126827, and DK106000, and the Leducq Foundation.	Advances in our understanding of how the gut microbiota contributes to human health and diseases have expanded our insight into how microbial composition and function affect the human host. Heart failure is associated with splanchnic circulation congestion, leading to bowel wall oedema and impaired intestinal barrier function. This situation is thought to heighten the overall inflammatory state via increased bacterial translocation and the presence of bacterial products in the systemic blood circulation. Several metabolites produced by gut microorganisms from dietary metabolism have been linked to pathologies such as atherosclerosis, hypertension, heart failure, chronic kidney disease, obesity, and type 2 diabetes mellitus. These findings suggest that the gut microbiome functions like an endocrine organ by generating bioactive metabolites that can directly or indirectly affect host physiology. In this Review, we discuss several newly discovered gut microbial metabolic pathways, including the production of trimethylamine and trimethylamine N-oxide, short-chain fatty acids, and secondary bile acids, that seem to participate in the development and progression of cardiovascular diseases, including heart failure. We also discuss the gut microbiome as a novel therapeutic target for the treatment of cardiovascular disease, and potential strategies for targeting intestinal microbial processes.	Gut microbes influence cardiovascular disease and thrombosis risks through the production of trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO). Microbiota-dependent generation of trimethylamine (TMA)-the precursor to TMAO-is rate limiting in the metaorganismal TMAO pathway in most humans and is catalyzed by several distinct microbial choline TMA-lyases, including the proteins encoded by the cutC/D (choline utilization C/D) genes in multiple human commensals. Direct demonstration that the gut microbial cutC gene is sufficient to transmit enhanced platelet reactivity and thrombosis potential in a host via TMA/TMAO generation has not yet been reported. Herein, we use gnotobiotic mice and a series of microbial colonization studies to show that microbial cutC-dependent TMA/TMAO production is sufficient to transmit heightened platelet reactivity and thrombosis potential in a host. Specifically, we examine in vivo thrombosis potential employing germ-free mice colonized with either high TMA-producing stable human fecal polymcrobial communities or a defined CutC-deficient background microbial community coupled with a CutC-expressing human commensal±genetic disruption of its cutC gene (ie, Clostridium sporogenes Δ cutC). Collectively, these studies point to the microbial choline TMA-lyase pathway as a rational molecular target for the treatment of atherothrombotic heart disease.	Trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO) is a gut microbiota-derived metabolite that enhances both platelet responsiveness and in vivo thrombosis potential in animal models, and TMAO plasma levels predict incident atherothrombotic event risks in human clinical studies. TMAO is formed by gut microbe-dependent metabolism of trimethylamine (TMA) moiety-containing nutrients, which are abundant in a Western diet. Here, using a mechanism-based inhibitor approach targeting a major microbial TMA-generating enzyme pair, CutC and CutD (CutC/D), we developed inhibitors that are potent, time-dependent, and irreversible and that do not affect commensal viability. In animal models, a single oral dose of a CutC/D inhibitor significantly reduced plasma TMAO levels for up to 3 d and rescued diet-induced enhanced platelet responsiveness and thrombus formation, without observable toxicity or increased bleeding risk. The inhibitor selectively accumulated within intestinal microbes to millimolar levels, a concentration over 1-million-fold higher than needed for a therapeutic effect. These studies reveal that mechanism-based inhibition of gut microbial TMA and TMAO production reduces thrombosis potential, a critical adverse complication in heart disease. They also offer a generalizable approach for the selective nonlethal targeting of gut microbial enzymes linked to host disease limiting systemic exposure of the inhibitor in the host.	Essentials Microbe-dependent production of trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO) contributes to thrombosis risk. The impact of host flavin monooxygenase 3 (FMO3) modulation on platelet function is unknown. Genetic manipulation of FMO3 in mice alters systemic TMAO levels and thrombosis potential. Genetic manipulation of FMO3 is associated with alteration of gut microbial community structure. Background Gut microbes play a critical role in the production of trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO), an atherogenic metabolite that impacts platelet responsiveness and thrombosis potential. Involving both microbe and host enzymatic machinery, TMAO generation utilizes a metaorganismal pathway, beginning with ingestion of trimethylamine (TMA)-containing dietary nutrients such as choline, phosphatidylcholine and carnitine, which are abundant in a Western diet. Gut microbial TMA lyases use these nutrients as substrates to produce TMA, which upon delivery to the liver via the portal circulation, is converted into TMAO by host hepatic flavin monooxygenases (FMOs). Gut microbial production of TMA is rate limiting in the metaorganismal TMAO pathway because hepatic FMO activity is typically in excess. Objectives FMO3 is the major FMO responsible for host generation of TMAO; however, a role for FMO3 in altering platelet responsiveness and thrombosis potential in vivo has not yet been explored. Methods The impact of FMO3 suppression (antisense oligonucleotide-targeting) and overexpression (as transgene) on plasma TMAO levels, platelet responsiveness and thrombosis potential was examined using a murine FeCl3 -induced carotid artery injury model. Cecal microbial composition was examined using 16S analyses. Results Modulation of FMO3 directly impacts systemic TMAO levels, platelet responsiveness and rate of thrombus formation in vivo. Microbial composition analyses reveal taxa whose proportions are associated with both plasma TMAO levels and in vivo thrombosis potential. Conclusions The present studies demonstrate that host hepatic FMO3, the terminal step in the metaorganismal TMAO pathway, participates in diet-dependent and gut microbiota-dependent changes in both platelet responsiveness and thrombosis potential in vivo.	Aspirin desensitization has been associated with benefit in management of aspirin-exacerbated respiratory disease (AERD). An intervention that would encourage aspirin desensitization to be performed more frequently has substantial potential for improving outcomes and quality of life in patients with AERD. We investigated whether omalizumab administration would be associated with attenuation of aspirin-provoked bronchospasm in patients with AERD undergoing aspirin desensitization. We carried out a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study in which subjects with AERD who fulfilled label criteria for omalizumab received omalizumab or placebo for 16 weeks, and then underwent aspirin desensitization. Eleven subjects completed aspirin desensitization. Of the 7 who were randomized to omalizumab, 5 had no respiratory reaction during aspirin desensitization. Compared with placebo, omalizumab was associated with a significantly greater likelihood for subjects with AERD to have no respiratory reaction during desensitization (P = .04, Fisher exact test). There was an overall difference in urinary leukotriene E4 (LTE4) levels in subjects who received omalizumab and did not have a respiratory reaction during desensitization compared with subjects randomized to placebo (P = .035, mixed model with interaction). Urinary LTE4 levels were significantly higher with respiratory reaction in placebo subjects compared with levels obtained after the 100-mg dose in AERD subjects who had no respiratory reaction (P &lt; .001, mixed model with interaction). In atopic AERD subjects, omalizumab administration for 16 weeks was associated with &quot;clinically silent&quot; desensitization. Further studies to investigate the therapeutic utility of omalizumab in patients with AERD who are candidates for aspirin desensitization are warranted based on these findings. ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier NCT00555971.
Heemers, Hannelore	Cancer Biology	30742064	29786790	28826481	28566530	27451135	26876983	22456196	18497079	19345321	20166126	Sustained reliance on androgen receptor (AR) after failure of AR-targeting androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) prevents effective treatment of castration-recurrent (CR) prostate cancer (CaP). Interfering with the molecular machinery by which AR drives CaP progression may be an alternative therapeutic strategy but its feasibility remains to be tested. Here, we explore targeting the mechanism by which AR, via RhoA, conveys androgen-responsiveness to serum response factor (SRF), which controls aggressive CaP behavior and is maintained in CR-CaP. Following a siRNA screen and candidate gene approach, RNA-Seq studies confirmed that the RhoA effector Protein Kinase N1 (PKN1) transduces androgen-responsiveness to SRF. Androgen treatment induced SRF-PKN1 interaction, and PKN1 knockdown or overexpression severely impaired or stimulated, respectively, androgen regulation of SRF target genes. PKN1 overexpression occurred during clinical CR-CaP progression, and hastened CaP growth and shortened CR-CaP survival in orthotopic CaP xenografts. PKN1's effects on SRF relied on its kinase domain. The multikinase inhibitor lestaurtinib inhibited PKN1 action and preferentially affected androgen regulation of SRF over direct AR target genes. In a CR-CaP patient-derived xenograft, expression of SRF target genes was maintained while AR target gene expression declined and proliferative gene expression increased. PKN1 inhibition decreased viability of CaP cells before and after ADT. In patient-derived CaP explants, lestaurtinib increased AR target gene expression but did not significantly alter SRF target gene or proliferative gene expression. These results provide proof-of-principle for selective forms of ADT that preferentially target different fractions of AR's transcriptional output to inhibit CaP growth.	Nuclear receptors play an important role in prostate cancer and the androgen receptor is a key transcription factor in regulation of cellular events. Androgen receptor-associated coregulators may be upregulated or downregulated in prostate cancer. Altered expression of regulators may potentiate androgen-induced proliferation, migration, and invasion. Therapies aimed to modulate the function of coregulators in prostate cancer may be based on the use of small molecule inhibitors. Expression and function of AR-associated proteins could be investigated after overexpression and gene silencing followed by hormonal treatment, real-time RT-PCR and ChIP.	Standard treatment for metastatic prostate cancer (CaP) prevents ligand-activation of androgen receptor (AR). Despite initial remission, CaP progresses while relying on AR. AR transcriptional output controls CaP behavior and is an alternative therapeutic target, but its molecular regulation is poorly understood. Here, we show that action of activated AR partitions into fractions that are controlled preferentially by different coregulators. In a 452-AR-target gene panel, each of 18 clinically relevant coregulators mediates androgen-responsiveness of 0-57% genes and acts as a coactivator or corepressor in a gene-specific manner. Selectivity in coregulator-dependent AR action is reflected in differential AR binding site composition and involvement with CaP biology and progression. Isolation of a novel transcriptional mechanism in which WDR77 unites the actions of AR and p53, the major genomic drivers of lethal CaP, to control cell cycle progression provides proof-of-principle for treatment via selective interference with AR action by exploiting AR dependence on coregulators.	With few exceptions, the almost 30,000 prostate cancer deaths annually in the United States are due to failure of androgen deprivation therapy. Androgen deprivation therapy prevents ligand-activation of the androgen receptor. Despite initial remission after androgen deprivation therapy, prostate cancer almost invariably progresses while continuing to rely on androgen receptor action. Androgen receptor's transcriptional output, which ultimately controls prostate cancer behavior, is an alternative therapeutic target, but its molecular regulation is poorly understood. Recent insights in the molecular mechanisms by which the androgen receptor controls transcription of its target genes are uncovering gene specificity as well as context-dependency. Heterogeneity in the androgen receptor's transcriptional output is reflected both in its recruitment to diverse cognate DNA binding motifs and in its preferential interaction with associated pioneering factors, other secondary transcription factors and coregulators at those sites. This variability suggests that multiple, distinct modes of androgen receptor action that regulate diverse aspects of prostate cancer biology and contribute differentially to prostate cancer's clinical progression are active simultaneously in prostate cancer cells. Recent progress in the development of peptidomimetics and small molecules, and application of Chem-Seq approaches indicate the feasibility for selective disruption of critical protein-protein and protein-DNA interactions in transcriptional complexes. Here, we review the recent literature on the different molecular mechanisms by which the androgen receptor transcriptionally controls prostate cancer progression, and we explore the potential to translate these insights into novel, more selective forms of therapies that may bypass prostate cancer's resistance to conventional androgen deprivation therapy.	Next-generation sequencing is revealing genomic heterogeneity in localized prostate cancer (CaP). Incomplete sampling of CaP multiclonality has limited the implications for molecular subtyping, stratification, and systemic treatment. To determine the impact of genomic and transcriptomic diversity within and among intraprostatic CaP foci on CaP molecular taxonomy, predictors of progression, and actionable therapeutic targets. Four consecutive patients with clinically localized National Comprehensive Cancer Network intermediate- or high-risk CaP who did not receive neoadjuvant therapy underwent radical prostatectomy at Roswell Park Cancer Institute in June-July 2014. Presurgical information on CaP content and a customized tissue procurement procedure were used to isolate nonmicroscopic and noncontiguous CaP foci in radical prostatectomy specimens. Three cores were obtained from the index lesion and one core from smaller lesions. RNA and DNA were extracted simultaneously from 26 cores with ≥90% CaP content and analyzed using whole-exome sequencing, single-nucleotide polymorphism arrays, and RNA sequencing. Somatic mutations, copy number alternations, gene expression, gene fusions, and phylogeny were defined. The impact of genomic alterations on CaP molecular classification, gene sets measured in Oncotype DX, Prolaris, and Decipher assays, and androgen receptor activity among CaP cores was determined. There was considerable variability in genomic alterations among CaP cores, and between RNA- and DNA-based platforms. Heterogeneity was found in molecular grouping of individual CaP foci and the activity of gene sets underlying the assays for risk stratification and androgen receptor activity, and was validated in independent genomic data sets. Determination of the implications for clinical decision-making requires follow-up studies. Genomic make-up varies widely among CaP foci, so care should be taken when making treatment decisions based on a single biopsy or index lesions. We examined the molecular composition of individual cancers in a patient's prostate. We found a lot of genetic diversity among these cancers, and concluded that information from a single cancer biopsy is not sufficient to guide treatment decisions.	Androgen receptor (AR) is a ligand-activated transcription factor that is the main target for treatment of non-organ-confined prostate cancer (CaP). Failure of life-prolonging AR-targeting androgen deprivation therapy is due to flexibility in steroidogenic pathways that control intracrine androgen levels and variability in the AR transcriptional output. Androgen biosynthesis enzymes, androgen transporters and AR-associated coregulators are attractive novel CaP treatment targets. These proteins, however, are characterized by multiple transcript variants and isoforms, are subject to genomic alterations, and are differentially expressed among CaPs. Determining their therapeutic potential requires evaluation of extensive, diverse datasets that are dispersed over multiple databases, websites and literature reports. Mining and integrating these datasets are cumbersome, time-consuming tasks and provide only snapshots of relevant information. To overcome this impediment to effective, efficient study of AR and potential drug targets, we developed the Regulators of Androgen Action Resource (RAAR), a non-redundant, curated and user-friendly searchable web interface. RAAR centralizes information on gene function, clinical relevance, and resources for 55 genes that encode proteins involved in biosynthesis, metabolism and transport of androgens and for 274 AR-associated coregulator genes. Data in RAAR are organized in two levels: (i) Information pertaining to production of androgens is contained in a 'pre-receptor level' database, and coregulator gene information is provided in a 'post-receptor level' database, and (ii) an 'other resources' database contains links to additional databases that are complementary to and useful to pursue further the information provided in RAAR. For each of its 329 entries, RAAR provides access to more than 20 well-curated publicly available databases, and thus, access to thousands of data points. Hyperlinks provide direct access to gene-specific entries in the respective database(s). RAAR is a novel, freely available resource that provides fast, reliable and easy access to integrated information that is needed to develop alternative CaP therapies. Database URL: http://www.lerner.ccf.org/cancerbio/heemers/RAAR/search/.	Recently, we have identified serum response factor (SRF) as a mediator of clinically relevant androgen receptor (AR) action in prostate cancer (PCa). Genes that rely on SRF for androgen responsiveness represent a small fraction of androgen-regulated genes, but distinguish benign from malignant prostate, correlate with aggressive disease, and are associated with biochemical recurrence. Thus, understanding the mechanism(s) by which SRF conveys androgen regulation to its target genes may provide novel opportunities to target clinically relevant androgen signaling. Here, we show that the small GTPase ras homolog family member A (RhoA) mediates androgen-responsiveness of more than half of SRF target genes. Interference with expression of RhoA, activity of the RhoA effector Rho-associated coiled-coil containing protein kinase 1 (ROCK), and actin polymerization necessary for nuclear translocation of the SRF cofactor megakaryocytic acute leukemia (MAL) prevented full androgen regulation of SRF target genes. Androgen treatment induced RhoA activation, increased the nuclear content of MAL, and led to MAL recruitment to the promoter of the SRF target gene FHL2. In clinical specimens RhoA expression was higher in PCa cells than benign prostate cells, and elevated RhoA expression levels were associated with aggressive disease features and decreased disease-free survival after radical prostatectomy. Overexpression of RhoA markedly increased the androgen-responsiveness of select SRF target genes, in a manner that depends on its GTPase activity. The use of isogenic cell lines and a xenograft model that mimics the transition from androgen-stimulated to castration-recurrent PCa indicated that RhoA levels are not altered during disease progression, suggesting that RhoA expression levels in the primary tumor determine disease aggressiveness. Androgen-responsiveness of SRF target genes in castration-recurrent PCa cells continued to rely on AR, RhoA, SRF, and MAL and the presence of intact SRF binding sites. Silencing of RhoA, use of Rho-associated coiled-coil containing protein kinase 1 inhibitors, or an inhibitor of SRF-MAL interaction attenuated (androgen-regulated) cell viability and blunted PCa cell migration. Taken together, these studies demonstrate that the RhoA signaling axis mediates clinically relevant AR action in PCa.	Although the factors contributing to the progression of prostate cancer (PC) remain incompletely understood, androgens have long been recognized to play a central role in this process. Upon entering PC cells, androgens bind to a cognate nuclear receptor, the androgen receptor (AR). The activated AR translocates to the nucleus, binds as a dimer to androgen response elements (AREs) in the promoter of target genes, where it recruits the coactivator proteins necessary for the formation of a productive transcriptional complex, an event crucial for PC cell viability. For many decades, the androgen dependency of PCs has been exploited therapeutically by androgen ablation strategies. Although initially successful, these forms of therapy almost inevitably fail eventually, and an androgen depletion independent (ADI) disease emerges, for which currently no cure is available. Studies from our laboratory and others demonstrate that despite low circulating levels of functional androgens, the AR is critical for the proliferation and survival of ADI PC cells. Recent data indicate that alterations in the expression and/or activity of AR coactivator proteins occur during PC progression that can foster ADI activation of the AR. Here, we have investigated the role of the coactivator p300 in AR transcriptional activity and progression of PC.	Androgen signaling is critical for proliferation of prostate cancer cells but cannot be fully inhibited by current androgen deprivation therapies. A study by Xu et al. in this issue of Cancer Cell provides insights into the complexities of androgen signaling in prostate cancer and suggests avenues to target a subset of androgen-sensitive genes.	Deregulated androgen receptor (AR) action is critical for prostate cancer (PCa) progression. Aberrant expression of AR-associated coregulators contributes to AR activity in PCa. The mechanisms underlying coregulator expression in PCa are under intense investigation as they may lead to alternative means of targeting AR activity in PCa cells. We have recently shown that over 30% of coregulator expression in the PCa cell line LNCaP is subject to androgen regulation. Using multiple PCa cell lines as well as xenograft models, non-malignant prostate epithelial cell lines and androgen-responsive tissues derived from a male Wistar rat model system, we explored the effect of androgen stimulation and androgen deprivation on the expression of the core coactivators SRC1, SRC2, SRC3, CBP, and p300. Androgen stimulation of model systems representing PCa led to a decrease in the expression of SRC1, SRC2, SRC3, CBP, and p300, whereas androgen deprivation induced the expression of these coactivators. In contrast, expression of these coregulators remained largely unaffected following changes in the androgenic milieu in AR-positive models representing non-malignant prostate cells and tissues. Our data indicate differences in the regulation of coregulator expression between neoplastic and normal prostate cells. These findings emphasize the important potential of targeting the mechanisms regulating coregulator expression for therapeutic intervention in PCa.
Hine, Christopher	Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences	29634343	28591635	25542313	25523462	28701478	29071285	24905161	23505614	22008909	19106292	Hydrogen sulfide (H2S) at the right concentration is associated with numerous health benefits in experimental organisms, ranging from protection from ischemia/reperfusion injury to life span extension. Given the considerable translation potential, two major strategies have emerged: supplementation of exogenous H2S and modulation of endogenous H2S metabolism. Recent Advances: Recently, it was reported that hepatic H2S production capacity is increased in two of the best-characterized mammalian models of life span extension, dietary restriction, and hypopituitary dwarfism, leading to new insights into dietary and hormonal regulation of endogenous H2S production together with broader changes in sulfur amino acid (SAA) metabolism with implications for DNA methylation and redox status. Here, we discuss the role of dietary SAAs and growth hormone (GH)/thyroid hormone (TH) signaling in regulation of endogenous H2S production largely via repression of H2S generating enzymes cystathionine γ-lyase (CGL) and cystathionine β-synthase (CBS) on the level of gene transcription, as well as reciprocal regulation of GH and TH signaling by H2S itself. We also discuss plasticity of CGL and CBS gene expression in response to environmental stimuli and the potential of the microbiome to impact overall H2S levels. The relative contribution of increased H2S to health span or lifespan benefits in models of extended longevity remains to be determined, as does the mechanism by which such benefits occur. Nonetheless, our ability to control H2S levels using exogenous H2S donors or by modifying the endogenous H2S production/consumption equilibrium has the potential to improve health and increase &quot;shelf-life&quot; across evolutionary boundaries, including our own. Antioxid. Redox Signal. 28, 1483-1502.	Decreased growth hormone (GH) and thyroid hormone (TH) signaling are associated with longevity and metabolic fitness. The mechanisms underlying these benefits are poorly understood, but may overlap with those of dietary restriction (DR), which imparts similar benefits. Recently we discovered that hydrogen sulfide (H2S) is increased upon DR and plays an essential role in mediating DR benefits across evolutionary boundaries. Here we found increased hepatic H2S production in long-lived mouse strains of reduced GH and/or TH action, and in a cell-autonomous manner upon serum withdrawal in vitro. Negative regulation of hepatic H2S production by GH and TH was additive and occurred via distinct mechanisms, namely direct transcriptional repression of the H2S-producing enzyme cystathionine γ-lyase (CGL) by TH, and substrate-level control of H2S production by GH. Mice lacking CGL failed to downregulate systemic T4 metabolism and circulating IGF-1, revealing an essential role for H2S in the regulation of key longevity-associated hormones.	Dietary restriction (DR) without malnutrition encompasses numerous regimens with overlapping benefits including longevity and stress resistance, but unifying nutritional and molecular mechanisms remain elusive. In a mouse model of DR-mediated stress resistance, we found that sulfur amino acid (SAA) restriction increased expression of the transsulfuration pathway (TSP) enzyme cystathionine γ-lyase (CGL), resulting in increased hydrogen sulfide (H2S) production and protection from hepatic ischemia reperfusion injury. SAA supplementation, mTORC1 activation, or chemical/genetic CGL inhibition reduced H2S production and blocked DR-mediated stress resistance. In vitro, the mitochondrial protein SQR was required for H2S-mediated protection during nutrient/oxygen deprivation. Finally, TSP-dependent H2S production was observed in yeast, worm, fruit fly, and rodent models of DR-mediated longevity. Together, these data are consistent with evolutionary conservation of TSP-mediated H2S as a mediator of DR benefits with broad implications for clinical translation. PAPERFLICK: 	H2S is a gas easily identified by its distinctive odor. Although environmental exposure to H2S has been viewed alternately as therapeutic or toxic through the centuries, H2S has recently regained recognition for its numerous beneficial biological effects. Most experiments documenting such benefits, including improved glucose tolerance, increased stress resistance, and even lifespan extension, are based on exposure of experimental organisms to exogenous sources of H2S. However, appreciation is growing for the importance of H2S produced endogenously by the evolutionary conserved transsulfuration pathway (TSP) in health and longevity. Recent data implicate H2S produced by the TSP in pleiotropic benefits of dietary restriction (DR), or reduced nutrient/energy intake without malnutrition. DR, best known as the most reliable way to extend lifespan in a wide range of experimental organisms, includes various regimens aimed at either reducing overall calorie intake (calorie restriction, intermittent/every-other-day fasting) or reducing particular nutrients such as protein or the essential amino acid, methionine (methionine restriction), with overlapping functional benefits on stress resistance, metabolic fitness and lifespan. Here we will review the small but growing body of literature linking the TSP to the functional benefits of DR in part through the production of endogenous H2S, with an emphasis on regulation of the TSP and H2S production by diet and mechanisms of beneficial H2S action. 	Vaccination with potato virus X nanoparticles enhances the efficacy of traditional doxorubicin anticancer therapy against a mouse melanoma tumor model.	Hydrogen sulfide (H2S) gas is produced in cells and tissues via various enzymatic processes. H2S is an important signaling molecule in numerous biological processes, and deficiencies in endogenous H2S production are linked to cardiovascular and other health complications. Quantitation of steady-state H2S levels is challenging due to volatility of the gas and the need for specialized equipment. However, the capacity of an organ or tissue extract to produce H2S under optimized reaction conditions can be measured by a number of current assays that vary in sensitivity, specificity and throughput capacity. We developed a rapid, inexpensive, specific and relatively high-throughput method for quantitative detection of H2S production capacity from biological tissues. H2S released into the head space above a biological sample reacts with lead acetate to form lead sulfide, which is measured on a continuous basis using a plate reader or as an endpoint assay.	Aging and chemotherapeutics damage hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs), leading to dysregulation of asymmetric division and subsequent immunosuppression and blood-related diseases. In this issue, Cheng et al. (2014) use prolonged fasting as a medical intervention to decrease IGF-1/PKA signaling and protect HSCs against chemotherapeutic toxicity and promote rejuvenation.	Dietary restriction (DR) as a means to increase longevity is well-established in a number of model organisms from yeast to primates. DR also improves metabolic fitness and increases resistance to acute oxidative, carcinogenic and toxicological stressors - benefits with more immediate potential for clinical translation than increased lifespan. While the detailed mechanism of DR action remains unclear, a conceptual framework involving an adaptive, or hormetic response to the stress of nutrient/energy deprivation has been proposed. A key prediction of the hormesis hypothesis of DR is that beneficial adaptations occur in response to an increase in reactive oxygen/nitrogen species (ROS). These ROS may be derived either from increased mitochondrial respiration or increased xenobiotic metabolism in the case of some DR mimetics. This review will focus on the potential role of the redox-sensing transcription factor NF-E2-related factor 2 (NRF2) and its control of the evolutionarily conserved antioxidant/redox cycling and detoxification systems, collectively known as the Phase II response, in the adaptive response to DR.	Rad51 protein is overexpressed in a wide range of human cancers. Our previous in vitro studies demonstrated that a construct comprised Rad51 promoter driving expression of the diphtheria toxin A gene (pRad51-diphtheria toxin A (DTA)) destroys a variety of human cancer cell lines, with minimal to no toxicity to normal human cells. Here we delivered Rad51 promoter-based constructs in vivo using linear polyethylenimine nanoparticles, in vivo jetPEI, to visualize and treat tumors in mice with HeLa xenografts. For tumor detection, we used pRad51-Luc, a construct containing the firefly luciferase under the Rad51 promoter, administered by intraperitoneal (IP) injection. Tumors were detected with an in vivo bioluminescent camera. All mice with cancer displayed strong bioluminescence, while mice without cancer displayed no detectable bioluminescence. Treatment with pRad51-DTA/jetPEI decreased tumor mass of subcutaneous (SC) and IP tumors by sixfold and fourfold, respectively, along with the strong reduction of malignant ascites. Fifty percent of the mice with SC tumors were cancer-free after six pRad51-DTA/jetPEI injections, and for the mice with IP tumors, mean survival time increased by 90% compared to control mice. This study demonstrates the clinical potential of pRad51-based constructs delivered by nanoparticles for the diagnostics and treatment of a wide range of cancers.	Rad51 protein, involved in homologous recombination, is overexpressed in a variety of tumors, and its expression is correlated with a poor prognosis. Here we propose to exploit the overexpression of Rad51 in cancer cells to design a Rad51 promoter-based anticancer therapy. On average, Rad51 mRNA and protein levels are increased in cancer cells four- and sixfold, respectively. Serendipitously, we discovered that when the Rad51 ORF is replaced with another ORF, the difference in promoter activity between normal and cancer cells increases to an average of 840-fold with a maximum difference of 12,500-fold. This dramatic difference in activity has high therapeutic potential. We demonstrate that the fusion of Rad51 promoter to diphtheria toxin A (DTA) gene kills a variety of cancer cell types, including breast cancer, fibrosarcoma, and cervical cancer cells, with minimal effect on normal breast epithelial cells and normal fibroblasts. Our results suggest that therapies based on the Rad51 promoter will be highly tumor specific and open new avenues for targeting a broad range of cancers.
Hite, Duncan	Inflammation and Immunity	31112383	30346242	29256894	28082138	16714767	16714768	16714768	23431308	24835849	30801214	The benefits of early continuous neuromuscular blockade in patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) who are receiving mechanical ventilation remain unclear. We randomly assigned patients with moderate-to-severe ARDS (defined by a ratio of the partial pressure of arterial oxygen to the fraction of inspired oxygen of &lt;150 mm Hg with a positive end-expiratory pressure [PEEP] of ≥8 cm of water) to a 48-hour continuous infusion of cisatracurium with concomitant deep sedation (intervention group) or to a usual-care approach without routine neuromuscular blockade and with lighter sedation targets (control group). The same mechanical-ventilation strategies were used in both groups, including a strategy involving a high PEEP. The primary end point was in-hospital death from any cause at 90 days. The trial was stopped at the second interim analysis for futility. We enrolled 1006 patients early after the onset of moderate-to-severe ARDS (median, 7.6 hours after onset). During the first 48 hours after randomization, 488 of the 501 patients (97.4%) in the intervention group started a continuous infusion of cisatracurium (median duration of infusion, 47.8 hours; median dose, 1807 mg), and 86 of the 505 patients (17.0%) in the control group received a neuromuscular blocking agent (median dose, 38 mg). At 90 days, 213 patients (42.5%) in the intervention group and 216 (42.8%) in the control group had died before hospital discharge (between-group difference, -0.3 percentage points; 95% confidence interval, -6.4 to 5.9; P = 0.93). While in the hospital, patients in the intervention group were less physically active and had more adverse cardiovascular events than patients in the control group. There were no consistent between-group differences in end points assessed at 3, 6, and 12 months. Among patients with moderate-to-severe ARDS who were treated with a strategy involving a high PEEP, there was no significant difference in mortality at 90 days between patients who received an early and continuous cisatracurium infusion and those who were treated with a usual-care approach with lighter sedation targets. (Funded by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute; ROSE ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT02509078.).	There are conflicting data on the effects of antipsychotic medications on delirium in patients in the intensive care unit (ICU). In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, we assigned patients with acute respiratory failure or shock and hypoactive or hyperactive delirium to receive intravenous boluses of haloperidol (maximum dose, 20 mg daily), ziprasidone (maximum dose, 40 mg daily), or placebo. The volume and dose of a trial drug or placebo was halved or doubled at 12-hour intervals on the basis of the presence or absence of delirium, as detected with the use of the Confusion Assessment Method for the ICU, and of side effects of the intervention. The primary end point was the number of days alive without delirium or coma during the 14-day intervention period. Secondary end points included 30-day and 90-day survival, time to freedom from mechanical ventilation, and time to ICU and hospital discharge. Safety end points included extrapyramidal symptoms and excessive sedation. Written informed consent was obtained from 1183 patients or their authorized representatives. Delirium developed in 566 patients (48%), of whom 89% had hypoactive delirium and 11% had hyperactive delirium. Of the 566 patients, 184 were randomly assigned to receive placebo, 192 to receive haloperidol, and 190 to receive ziprasidone. The median duration of exposure to a trial drug or placebo was 4 days (interquartile range, 3 to 7). The median number of days alive without delirium or coma was 8.5 (95% confidence interval [CI], 5.6 to 9.9) in the placebo group, 7.9 (95% CI, 4.4 to 9.6) in the haloperidol group, and 8.7 (95% CI, 5.9 to 10.0) in the ziprasidone group (P=0.26 for overall effect across trial groups). The use of haloperidol or ziprasidone, as compared with placebo, had no significant effect on the primary end point (odds ratios, 0.88 [95% CI, 0.64 to 1.21] and 1.04 [95% CI, 0.73 to 1.48], respectively). There were no significant between-group differences with respect to the secondary end points or the frequency of extrapyramidal symptoms. The use of haloperidol or ziprasidone, as compared with placebo, in patients with acute respiratory failure or shock and hypoactive or hyperactive delirium in the ICU did not significantly alter the duration of delirium. (Funded by the National Institutes of Health and the VA Geriatric Research Education and Clinical Center; MIND-USA ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01211522 .).	Academic medical centers in North America are expanding their missions from the traditional triad of patient care, research, and education to include the broader issue of healthcare delivery improvement. In recent years, integrated Critical Care Organizations have developed within academic centers to better meet the challenges of this broadening mission. The goal of this article was to provide interested administrators and intensivists with the proper resources, lines of communication, and organizational approach to accomplish integration and Critical Care Organization formation effectively. The Academic Critical Care Organization Building section workgroup of the taskforce established regular monthly conference calls to reach consensus on the development of a toolkit utilizing methods proven to advance the development of their own academic Critical Care Organizations. Relevant medical literature was reviewed by literature search. Materials from federal agencies and other national organizations were accessed through the Internet. The Society of Critical Care Medicine convened a taskforce entitled &quot;Academic Leaders in Critical Care Medicine&quot; on February 22, 2016 at the 45th Critical Care Congress using the expertise of successful leaders of advanced governance Critical Care Organizations in North America to develop a toolkit for advancing Critical Care Organizations. Key elements of an academic Critical Care Organization are outlined. The vital missions of multidisciplinary patient care, safety, and quality are linked to the research, education, and professional development missions that enhance the value of such organizations. Core features, benefits, barriers, and recommendations for integration of academic programs within Critical Care Organizations are described. Selected readings and resources to successfully implement the recommendations are provided. Communication with medical school and hospital leadership is discussed. We present the rationale for critical care programs to transition to integrated Critical Care Organizations within academic medical centers and provide recommendations and resources to facilitate this transition and foster Critical Care Organization effectiveness and future success.	To determine if the length of stay at a referring institution intensive care unit (ICU) before transfer to a tertiary/quaternary care facility is a risk factor for mortality. We performed a retrospective chart review of patients transferred to our ICU from referring institution ICUs over a 3-year period. Logistical regression analysis was performed to determine which factors were independently associated with increased mortality. The primary outcomes were ICU and hospital mortality. A total of 1248 patients were included in our study. Length of stay at the referring institution was an independent risk factor for both ICU and hospital mortality (P&lt;.0001), with increasing lengths of stay correlating with increased mortality. Each additional day at the referring institution was associated with a 1.04 increase in likelihood of ICU mortality (95% confidence interval, 1.02-1.06; P =0.001) and a 1.029 (95% confidence interval, 1.01-1.05; P .005) increase in likelihood of hospital mortality. Length of stay at the referring institution before transfer is a risk factor for worse outcomes, with longer stays associated with increased likelihood of mortality. Further studies delineating which factors most affect length of stay at referring institutions, though a difficult task, should be pursued.	Optimal fluid management in patients with acute lung injury is unknown. Diuresis or fluid restriction may improve lung function but could jeopardize extrapulmonary-organ perfusion. In a randomized study, we compared a conservative and a liberal strategy of fluid management using explicit protocols applied for seven days in 1000 patients with acute lung injury. The primary end point was death at 60 days. Secondary end points included the number of ventilator-free days and organ-failure-free days and measures of lung physiology. The rate of death at 60 days was 25.5 percent in the conservative-strategy group and 28.4 percent in the liberal-strategy group (P=0.30; 95 percent confidence interval for the difference, -2.6 to 8.4 percent). The mean (+/-SE) cumulative fluid balance during the first seven days was -136+/-491 ml in the conservative-strategy group and 6992+/-502 ml in the liberal-strategy group (P&lt;0.001). As compared with the liberal strategy, the conservative strategy improved the oxygenation index ([mean airway pressure x the ratio of the fraction of inspired oxygen to the partial pressure of arterial oxygen]x100) and the lung injury score and increased the number of ventilator-free days (14.6+/-0.5 vs. 12.1+/-0.5, P&lt;0.001) and days not spent in the intensive care unit (13.4+/-0.4 vs. 11.2+/-0.4, P&lt;0.001) during the first 28 days but did not increase the incidence or prevalence of shock during the study or the use of dialysis during the first 60 days (10 percent vs. 14 percent, P=0.06). Although there was no significant difference in the primary outcome of 60-day mortality, the conservative strategy of fluid management improved lung function and shortened the duration of mechanical ventilation and intensive care without increasing nonpulmonary-organ failures. These results support the use of a conservative strategy of fluid management in patients with acute lung injury. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00281268 [ClinicalTrials.gov].).	The balance between the benefits and the risks of pulmonary-artery catheters (PACs) has not been established. We evaluated the relationship of benefits and risks of PACs in 1000 patients with established acute lung injury in a randomized trial comparing hemodynamic management guided by a PAC with hemodynamic management guided by a central venous catheter (CVC) using an explicit management protocol. Mortality during the first 60 days before discharge home was the primary outcome. The groups had similar baseline characteristics. The rates of death during the first 60 days before discharge home were similar in the PAC and CVC groups (27.4 percent and 26.3 percent, respectively; P=0.69; absolute difference, 1.1 percent; 95 percent confidence interval, -4.4 to 6.6 percent), as were the mean (+/-SE) numbers of both ventilator-free days (13.2+/-0.5 and 13.5+/-0.5; P=0.58) and days not spent in the intensive care unit (12.0+/-0.4 and 12.5+/-0.5; P=0.40) to day 28. PAC-guided therapy did not improve these measures for patients in shock at the time of enrollment. There were no significant differences between groups in lung or kidney function, rates of hypotension, ventilator settings, or use of dialysis or vasopressors. Approximately 90 percent of protocol instructions were followed in both groups, with a 1 percent rate of crossover from CVC- to PAC-guided therapy. Fluid balance was similar in the two groups, as was the proportion of instructions given for fluid and diuretics. Dobutamine use was uncommon. The PAC group had approximately twice as many catheter-related complications (predominantly arrhythmias). PAC-guided therapy did not improve survival or organ function but was associated with more complications than CVC-guided therapy. These results, when considered with those of previous studies, suggest that the PAC should not be routinely used for the management of acute lung injury. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00281268.).	The balance between the benefits and the risks of pulmonary-artery catheters (PACs) has not been established. We evaluated the relationship of benefits and risks of PACs in 1000 patients with established acute lung injury in a randomized trial comparing hemodynamic management guided by a PAC with hemodynamic management guided by a central venous catheter (CVC) using an explicit management protocol. Mortality during the first 60 days before discharge home was the primary outcome. The groups had similar baseline characteristics. The rates of death during the first 60 days before discharge home were similar in the PAC and CVC groups (27.4 percent and 26.3 percent, respectively; P=0.69; absolute difference, 1.1 percent; 95 percent confidence interval, -4.4 to 6.6 percent), as were the mean (+/-SE) numbers of both ventilator-free days (13.2+/-0.5 and 13.5+/-0.5; P=0.58) and days not spent in the intensive care unit (12.0+/-0.4 and 12.5+/-0.5; P=0.40) to day 28. PAC-guided therapy did not improve these measures for patients in shock at the time of enrollment. There were no significant differences between groups in lung or kidney function, rates of hypotension, ventilator settings, or use of dialysis or vasopressors. Approximately 90 percent of protocol instructions were followed in both groups, with a 1 percent rate of crossover from CVC- to PAC-guided therapy. Fluid balance was similar in the two groups, as was the proportion of instructions given for fluid and diuretics. Dobutamine use was uncommon. The PAC group had approximately twice as many catheter-related complications (predominantly arrhythmias). PAC-guided therapy did not improve survival or organ function but was associated with more complications than CVC-guided therapy. These results, when considered with those of previous studies, suggest that the PAC should not be routinely used for the management of acute lung injury. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00281268.).	Aspiration of colonized oropharyngeal secretions is a major factor in the pathogenesis of ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP). A tapered-cuff endotracheal tube (ETT) has been demonstrated to reduce aspiration around the cuff. Whether these properties are efficacious in reducing VAP is not known. This 2-period, investigator-initiated observational study was designed to assess the efficacy of a tapered-cuff ETT to reduce the VAP rate. All intubated, mechanically ventilated patients over the age of 18 were included. During the baseline period a standard, barrel-shaped-cuff ETT (Mallinckrodt Hi-Lo) was used. All ETTs throughout the hospital were then replaced with a tapered-cuff ETT (TaperGuard). The primary outcome variable was the incidence of VAP per 1,000 ventilator days. We included 2,849 subjects, encompassing 15,250 ventilator days. The mean ± SD monthly VAP rate was 3.29 ± 1.79/1,000 ventilator days in the standard-cuff group and 2.77 ± 2.00/1,000 ventilator days in the tapered-cuff group (P = .65). While adherence to the VAP prevention bundle was high throughout the study, bundle adherence was significantly higher during the standard-cuff period (96.5 ± 2.7%) than in the tapered-cuff period (90.3 ± 3.5%, P = .01). In the setting of a VAP rate very near the average of ICUs in the United States, and where there was high adherence to a VAP prevention bundle, the use of a tapered-cuff ETT was not associated with a reduction in the VAP rate.	In the acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), inflammation in the lungs and other organs can cause life-threatening organ failure. Inhibitors of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase (statins) can modulate inflammatory responses. Previous observational studies suggested that statins improved clinical outcomes in patients with sepsis. We hypothesized that rosuvastatin therapy would improve clinical outcomes in critically ill patients with sepsis-associated ARDS. We conducted a multicenter trial in which patients with sepsis-associated ARDS were randomly assigned to receive either enteral rosuvastatin or placebo in a double-blind manner. The primary outcome was mortality before hospital discharge home or until study day 60 if the patient was still in a health care facility. Secondary outcomes included the number of ventilator-free days (days that patients were alive and breathing spontaneously) to day 28 and organ-failure-free days to day 14. The study was stopped because of futility after 745 of an estimated 1000 patients had been enrolled. There was no significant difference between study groups in 60-day in-hospital mortality (28.5% with rosuvastatin and 24.9% with placebo, P=0.21) or in mean (±SD) ventilator-free days (15.1±10.8 with rosuvastatin and 15.1±11.0 with placebo, P=0.96). The groups were well matched with respect to demographic and key physiological variables. Rosuvastatin therapy, as compared with placebo, was associated with fewer days free of renal failure to day 14 (10.1±5.3 vs. 11.0±4.7, P=0.01) and fewer days free of hepatic failure to day 14 (10.8±5.0 vs. 11.8±4.3, P=0.003). Rosuvastatin was not associated with an increased incidence of serum creatine kinase levels that were more than 10 times the upper limit of the normal range. Rosuvastatin therapy did not improve clinical outcomes in patients with sepsis-associated ARDS and may have contributed to hepatic and renal organ dysfunction. (Funded by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute and the Investigator-Sponsored Study Program of AstraZeneca; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00979121.).	OBJECTIVE To evaluate the lipidomic profile of surfactant obtained from horses with asthma at various clinical stages and to compare results with findings for healthy horses exposed to the same conditions. SAMPLE Surfactant samples obtained from 6 horses with severe asthma and 7 healthy horses. PROCEDURES Clinical evaluation of horses and surfactant analysis were performed. Samples obtained from horses with severe asthma and healthy horses before (baseline), during, and after exposure to hay were analyzed. Crude surfactant pellets were dried prior to dissolution in a solution of isopropanol:methanol:chloroform (4:2:1) containing 7.5mM ammonium acetate. Shotgun lipidomics were performed by use of high-resolution data acquisition on an ion-trap mass spectrometer. Findings were analyzed by use of an ANOVA with a Tukey-Kramer post hoc test. RESULTS Results of lipidomic analysis were evaluated to detect significant differences between groups of horses and among exposure statuses within groups of horses. Significantly increased amounts of cyclic phosphatidic acid (cPA) and diacylglycerol (DAG) were detected in surfactant from severely asthmatic horses during exposure to hay, compared with baseline and postexposure concentrations. Concentrations of cPA and DAG did not change significantly in healthy horses regardless of exposure status. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE cPA 16:0 and DAG 36:2 were 2 novel lipid mediators identified in surfactant obtained from asthmatic horses with clinical disease. These molecules were likely biomarkers of sustained inflammation. Further studies are needed to evaluate a possible correlation with disease severity and potential alterations in the plasma lipidomic profile of horses with asthma.
Hobbs, Brian	Quantitative Health Sciences	30786040	30672395	30561713	30335125	30037304	29984488	29949418	29412015	29398440	29036300	The evolution of &quot;informatics&quot; technologies has the potential to generate massive databases, but the extent to which personalized medicine may be effectuated depends on the extent to which these rich databases may be utilized to advance understanding of the disease molecular profiles and ultimately integrated for treatment selection, necessitating robust methodology for dimension reduction. Yet, statistical methods proposed to address challenges arising with the high-dimensionality of omics-type data predominately rely on linear models and emphasize associations deriving from prognostic biomarkers. Existing methods are often limited for discovering predictive biomarkers that interact with treatment and fail to elucidate the predictive power of their resultant selection rules. In this article, we present a Bayesian predictive method for personalized treatment selection that is devised to integrate both the treatment predictive and disease prognostic characteristics of a particular patient's disease. The method appropriately characterizes the structural constraints inherent to prognostic and predictive biomarkers, and hence properly utilizes these complementary sources of information for treatment selection. The methodology is illustrated through a case study of lower grade glioma. Theoretical considerations are explored to demonstrate the manner in which treatment selection is impacted by prognostic features. Additionally, simulations based on an actual leukemia study are provided to ascertain the method's performance with respect to selection rules derived from competing methods.	Perfusion computed tomography is an emerging functional imaging modality that uses physiological models to quantify characteristics pertaining to the passage of fluid through blood vessels. Perfusion characteristics provide physiological correlates for neovascularization induced by tumor angiogenesis and thus a quantitative basis for cancer detection, prognostication, and treatment monitoring. We consider a liver cancer study where patients underwent a dynamic computed tomography protocol to enable evaluation of multiple perfusion characteristics derived from interrogating the time-attenuation of the concentration of the intravenously administered contrast medium. The objective is to determine the effectiveness of using perfusion characteristics to identify and discriminate between regions of liver that contain malignant tissues from normal tissue. Each patient contributes multiple regions of interest which are spatially correlated due to the shared vasculature. We propose a multivariate functional data model to disclose the correlation over time and space as well as the correlation among multiple perfusion characteristics. We further propose a simultaneous classification approach that utilizes all the correlation information to predict class assignments for collections of regions. The proposed method outperforms conventional classification approaches in the presence of strong spatial correlation. The method offers maximal relative improvement in the presence of temporal sparsity wherein measurements are obtainable at only a few time points.	Traditionally, drug development has evaluated dose, safety, activity, and comparative benefit in a sequence of phases using trial designs and endpoints specifically devised for each phase. Innovations in drug development seek to consolidate the phases and rapidly expand accrual with &quot;seamless&quot; trial designs. Although consolidation and rapid accrual may yield efficiencies, widespread use of seamless first-in-human (FiH) trials without careful consideration of objectives, statistical analysis plans, or trial oversight raises concerns. A working group formed by the National Cancer Institute convened to consider and discuss opportunities and challenges for such trials as well as encourage responsible use of these designs. We reviewed all abstracts presented at American Society of Clinical Oncology annual meetings from 2010 to 2017 for FiH trials enrolling at least 100 patients. We identified 1786 early-phase trials enrolling 57 559 adult patients. Fifty-one of the trials (2.9%) investigated 50 investigational new drugs, were seamless, and accounted for 14.6% of the total patients. The seamless trials included a median of 3 (range = 1-13) expansion cohorts. The overall risk of clinically significant treatment-related adverse events (grade 3-4) was 49.1% (range = 0.0-100%), and seven studies reported at least one toxic death. Rapid expansion of FiH trials may lead to earlier drug approval and corresponding widespread patient access to active therapeutics. Nevertheless, seamless designs must adhere to established ethical, scientific, and statistical standards. Protocols should include prospectively planned analyses of efficacy in disease- or biomarker-defined cohorts of sufficient rigor to support accelerated approval.	Within the evidentiary hierarchy of experimental inquiry, randomized trials are the gold standard. Oncology patients enter clinical studies with diverse lifestyles, treatment pathways, host tissue environments, and competing comorbidities. Randomization attempts to balance prognostic characteristics among study arms, thereby enabling statistical inference of 'average benefit' and attribution to the studied therapies. In contrast, interpretations of uncontrolled trials require additional scrutiny to attempt to place the findings in the context of external evidence. Counter-factual reasoning and speculation across trials may be obscured by the disproportionate enrollment of prognostic subpopulations which may be unknown from publications of trial reports. Recent modifications to the regulatory environment (Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act) have elevated the importance of non-comparative trials. Moreover, the emergence of recent innovations in precision medicine have yielded trial designs that partition potentially heterogeneous subpopulations into 'statistically exchangeable' cohorts by histologies, or genetic alterations, further elevating the importance of single-cohort analyses. As patient cohorts become ever more refined into smaller targeted subsets, consumers of reports of uncontrolled trials should be further empowered with improvements in reporting practices that better describe the enrolled prognostic subpopulations and importantly their association with study end points. This article demonstrates the issue with a sensitivity analysis of the findings reported in a recent trial that was devised to evaluate the preliminary clinical efficacy of vemurafenib in BRAF V600 mutation-positive nonmelanoma cancers.	Precision medicine has emerged from the awareness that many human diseases are intrinsically heterogeneous with respect to their pathogenesis and composition among patients as well as dynamic over the course therapy. Its successful application relies on our understanding of distinct molecular profiles and their biomarkers which can be used as targets to devise treatment strategies that exploit current understanding of the biological mechanisms of the disease. Precision medicine present challenges to traditional paradigms of clinical translational, however, for which estimates of population-averaged effects from large randomized trials are used as the basis for demonstrating improvements comparative effectiveness. A general approach for estimating the relative effectiveness of biomarker-guided therapeutic strategies is presented herein. The statistical procedure attempts to define the local benefit of a given biomarker-guided therapeutic strategy in consideration of the treatment response surfaces, selection rule, and inter-cohort balance of prognostic determinants. Theoretical and simulation results are provided. Additionally, the methodology is demonstrated through a proteomic study of lower grade glioma.	Precision medicine endeavors to conform therapeutic interventions to the individuals being treated. Implicit to the concept of precision medicine is heterogeneity of treatment benefit among patients and patient subpopulations. Thus, precision medicine challenges conventional paradigms of clinical translational which have relied on estimates of population-averaged effects to guide clinical practice. Basket trials comprise a class of experimental designs used to study solid malignancies that are devised to evaluate the effectiveness of a therapeutic strategy among patients defined by the presence of a particular drug target (often a genetic mutation) rather than a particular tumor histology. Acknowledging the potential for differential effectiveness on the basis of traditional criteria for cancer subtyping, evaluations of treatment effectiveness are conducted with respect to the &quot;baskets&quot; which collectively represent a partition of the targeted patient population consisting of discrete subtypes. Yet, designs of early basket trials have been criticized for their reliance on basketwise analysis strategies that suffered from limited power in the presence of imbalanced enrollment as well as failed to convey to the clinical community evidentiary measures for consistent effectiveness among the studied clinical subtypes. This article presents novel methodology for sequential basket trial design formulated with Bayesian monitoring rules. Interim analyses are based a novel hierarchical modeling strategy for sharing information among a collection of discrete potentially nonexchangeable subtypes. The methodology is demonstrated by analysis as well as permutation and simulation studies based on a recent basket trial designed to estimate the effectiveness of vemurafenib in BRAF<sup>V600</sup> mutant non-melanoma among six primary disease sites and histologies.	The objective of this study was to identify features that impact the diagnostic performance of intermediate-delay washout CT for distinguishing malignant from benign adrenal lesions. This retrospective study evaluated 127 pathologically proven adrenal lesions (82 malignant, 45 benign) in 126 patients who had undergone portal venous phase and intermediate-delay washout CT (1-3 minutes after portal venous phase) with or without unenhanced images. Unenhanced images were available for 103 lesions. Quantitatively, lesion CT attenuation on unenhanced (UA) and delayed (DL) images, absolute and relative percentage of enhancement washout (APEW and RPEW, respectively), descriptive CT features (lesion size, margin characteristics, heterogeneity or homogeneity, fat, calcification), patient demographics, and medical history were evaluated for association with lesion status using multiple logistic regression with stepwise model selection. Area under the ROC curve (Az) was calculated from both univariate and multivariate analyses. The predictive diagnostic performance of multivariate evaluations was ascertained through cross-validation. Az for DL, APEW, RPEW, and UA was 0.751, 0.795, 0.829, and 0.839, respectively. Multivariate analyses yielded the following significant CT quantitative features and associated Az when combined: RPEW and DL (Az = 0.861) when unenhanced images were not available and APEW and UA (Az = 0.889) when unenhanced images were available. Patient demographics and presence of a prior malignancy were additional significant factors, increasing Az to 0.903 and 0.927, respectively. The combined predictive classifier, without and with UA available, yielded 85.7% and 87.3% accuracies with cross-validation, respectively. When appropriately combined with other CT features, washout derived from intermediate-delay CT with or without additional clinical data has potential utility in differentiating malignant from benign adrenal lesions.	The purpose of this study is to identify imaging and patient parameters that affect the diagnostic performance of delayed contrast-enhanced CT for distinguishing malignant from benign adrenal lesions larger than 1 cm in adult patients and to derive predictive models. This retrospective study assessed 97 pathologically proven adrenal lesions that had undergone unenhanced, portal venous, and 15-minute delayed CT. Quantitatively, single-parameter evaluations of lesion attenuation (in Hounsfield units) and absolute percentage enhancement washout (APEW) and relative percentage enhancement washout (RPEW) were performed. In addition, descriptive CT features (lesion size, margin definition, heterogeneity vs homogeneity, fat, and calcification) and patients' demographic characteristics and medical history of malignancy were evaluated for association with lesion status using multiple logistic regression with stepwise model selection. Areas under the ROC curve (Az) were determined for univariate and multivariate analyses. Leave-one-lesion-out cross-validation was applied to ascertain the predictive performance of single-parameter and multivariate evaluations. The Az values for unenhanced attenuation, portal venous attenuation, delayed attenuation, APEW, and RPEW were 0.835, 0.534, 0.847, 0.792, and 0.871, respectively. Multivariate analyses revealed that portal venous attenuation, delayed attenuation, and APEW were significant features, with an Az of 0.923 when combined. The addition of the descriptive CT features increased the Az to 0.938; patient age and a history of malignancy were additional significant factors, increasing the Az to 0.956 and 0.972, respectively. The combined predictive classifier yielded 89% accuracy under cross-validation, compared with the best commonly applied single-parameter evaluation (77% for RPEW &lt; 40%). Multivariate imaging evaluation applied to delayed contrast-enhanced CT alone, with or without patient characteristics, improves diagnostic performance for characterizing adrenal lesions beyond those of single-parameter evaluations. Predictive formulas assessing the probabilities of lesion benignity or malignancy are provided.	To determine if combination of washout and noncontrast data from delayed adrenal computed tomography (CT) improves diagnostic performance, and demonstration of an optimizing analytical framework. This retrospective study consisted of 97 adrenal lesions, in 96 patients, with pathologically proven adrenal lesions (75 benign; 22 malignant), who had undergone noncontrast, portal- and approximate 15-minute delayed-phase CT. Lesion CT attenuations (Hounsfield units [HU]) during each phase, and &quot;absolute&quot; and &quot;relative&quot; percent enhancement washouts (APEW and RPEW) were assessed. The optimum combination of sequential parameters and thresholds was determined by recursive partitioning analysis; resultant diagnostic performance was compared to commonly applied single-parameter criteria for malignancy (noncontrast &gt; 10 HU, APEW &lt; 60%, RPEW &lt; 40%). The above single-parameter criteria yielded sensitivities, specificities, and accuracies for malignancy of 100.0%, 41.3%, and 54.6%; 97.9%, 61.3%, and 69.1%; and 96.6%, 74.7%, and 78.4%, respectively. Recursive partitioning analysis identified noncontrast ≥24.75 HU, with subsequent APEW ≤63.49%, as the optimum sequential parameter-threshold combination, which yielded increased sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of 100.0%, 85.3%, and 90.7%, respectively. Discrimination using the combined sequential classifier yielded statistically significant improvements in accuracy when compared to the above conventional single-parameter criteria (all P ≤ .039). Sequential application of noncontrast and washout criteria from delayed contrast-enhanced adrenal CT can improve diagnostic performance beyond that of commonly applied single-parameter criteria. Validation of the sequential ordering and refinement of the specific threshold values warrant further study.	Bayesian hierarchical models produce shrinkage estimators that can be used as the basis for integrating supplementary data into the analysis of a primary data source. Established approaches should be considered limited, however, because posterior estimation either requires prespecification of a shrinkage weight for each source or relies on the data to inform a single parameter, which determines the extent of influence or shrinkage from all sources, risking considerable bias or minimal borrowing. We introduce multisource exchangeability models (MEMs), a general Bayesian approach for integrating multiple, potentially non-exchangeable, supplemental data sources into the analysis of a primary data source. Our proposed modeling framework yields source-specific smoothing parameters that can be estimated in the presence of the data to facilitate a dynamic multi-resolution smoothed estimator that is asymptotically consistent while reducing the dimensionality of the prior space. When compared with competing Bayesian hierarchical modeling strategies, we demonstrate that MEMs achieve approximately 2.2 times larger median effective supplemental sample size when the supplemental data sources are exchangeable as well as a 56% reduction in bias when there is heterogeneity among the supplemental sources. We illustrate the application of MEMs using a recently completed randomized trial of very low nicotine content cigarettes, which resulted in a 30% improvement in efficiency compared with the standard analysis.
Hong, Changjin	Quantitative Health Sciences	25983538	25225611	24261665	26100579	25805852	24267797	24261665	23282319	23843222	22735708	Quality control and read preprocessing are critical steps in the analysis of data sets generated from high-throughput genomic screens. In the most extreme cases, improper preprocessing can negatively affect downstream analyses and may lead to incorrect biological conclusions. Here, we present PathoQC, a streamlined toolkit that seamlessly combines the benefits of several popular quality control software approaches for preprocessing next-generation sequencing data. PathoQC provides a variety of quality control options appropriate for most high-throughput sequencing applications. PathoQC is primarily developed as a module in the PathoScope software suite for metagenomic analysis. However, PathoQC is also available as an open-source Python module that can run as a stand-alone application or can be easily integrated into any bioinformatics workflow. PathoQC achieves high performance by supporting parallel computation and is an effective tool that removes technical sequencing artifacts and facilitates robust downstream analysis. The PathoQC software package is available at http://sourceforge.net/projects/PathoScope/. 	Recent innovations in sequencing technologies have provided researchers with the ability to rapidly characterize the microbial content of an environmental or clinical sample with unprecedented resolution. These approaches are producing a wealth of information that is providing novel insights into the microbial ecology of the environment and human health. However, these sequencing-based approaches produce large and complex datasets that require efficient and sensitive computational analysis workflows. Many recent tools for analyzing metagenomic-sequencing data have emerged, however, these approaches often suffer from issues of specificity, efficiency, and typically do not include a complete metagenomic analysis framework. We present PathoScope 2.0, a complete bioinformatics framework for rapidly and accurately quantifying the proportions of reads from individual microbial strains present in metagenomic sequencing data from environmental or clinical samples. The pipeline performs all necessary computational analysis steps; including reference genome library extraction and indexing, read quality control and alignment, strain identification, and summarization and annotation of results. We rigorously evaluated PathoScope 2.0 using simulated data and data from the 2011 outbreak of Shiga-toxigenic Escherichia coli O104:H4. The results show that PathoScope 2.0 is a complete, highly sensitive, and efficient approach for metagenomic analysis that outperforms alternative approaches in scope, speed, and accuracy. The PathoScope 2.0 pipeline software is freely available for download at: http://sourceforge.net/projects/pathoscope/.	DNA methylation has been linked to many important biological phenomena. Researchers have recently begun to sequence bisulfite treated DNA to determine its pattern of methylation. However, sequencing reads from bisulfite-converted DNA can vary significantly from the reference genome because of incomplete bisulfite conversion, genome variation, sequencing errors, and poor quality bases. Therefore, it is often difficult to align reads to the correct locations in the reference genome. Furthermore, bisulfite sequencing experiments have the additional complexity of having to estimate the DNA methylation levels within the sample. Here, we present a highly accurate probabilistic algorithm, which is an extension of the Genomic Next-generation Universal MAPper to accommodate bisulfite sequencing data (GNUMAP-bs), that addresses the computational problems associated with aligning bisulfite sequencing data to a reference genome. GNUMAP-bs integrates uncertainty from read and mapping qualities to help resolve the difference between poor quality bases and the ambiguity inherent in bisulfite conversion. We tested GNUMAP-bs and other commonly-used bisulfite alignment methods using both simulated and real bisulfite reads and found that GNUMAP-bs and other dynamic programming methods were more accurate than the more heuristic methods. The GNUMAP-bs aligner is a highly accurate alignment approach for processing the data from bisulfite sequencing experiments. The GNUMAP-bs algorithm is freely available for download at: http://dna.cs.byu.edu/gnumap. The software runs on multiple threads and multiple processors to increase the alignment speed.	Malaria is a major health threat, affecting over 40% of the world's population. The latest report released by the World Health Organization estimated about 207 million cases of malaria infection, and about 627,000 deaths in 2012 alone. During the past decade, new therapeutic targets have been identified and are at various stages of characterization, thanks to the emerging omics-based technologies. However, the mechanism of malaria pathogenesis remains largely unknown. In this paper, we employ a novel neighborhood subnetwork alignment approach to identify network components that are potentially involved in pathogenesis. Our module-based subnetwork alignment approach identified 24 functional homologs of pathogenesis-related proteins in the malaria parasite P. falciparum, using the protein-protein interaction networks in Escherichia coli as references. Eighteen out of these 24 proteins are associated with 418 other proteins that are related to DNA replication, transcriptional regulation, translation, signaling, metabolism, cell cycle regulation, as well as cytoadherence and entry to the host. The subnetwork alignments and subsequent protein-protein association network mining predicted a group of malarial proteins that may be involved in parasite development and parasite-host interaction, opening a new systems-level view of parasite pathogenesis and virulence.	Recent studies hint that endogenous dsRNA plays an unexpected role in cellular signaling. However, a complete understanding of endogenous dsRNA signaling is hindered by an incomplete annotation of dsRNA-producing genes. To identify dsRNAs expressed in Caenorhabditis elegans, we developed a bioinformatics pipeline that identifies dsRNA by detecting clustered RNA editing sites, which are strictly limited to long dsRNA substrates of Adenosine Deaminases that act on RNA (ADAR). We compared two alignment algorithms for mapping both unique and repetitive reads and detected as many as 664 editing-enriched regions (EERs) indicative of dsRNA loci. EERs are visually enriched on the distal arms of autosomes and are predicted to possess strong internal secondary structures as well as sequence complementarity with other EERs, indicative of both intramolecular and intermolecular duplexes. Most EERs were associated with protein-coding genes, with ∼1.7% of all C. elegans mRNAs containing an EER, located primarily in very long introns and in annotated, as well as unannotated, 3' UTRs. In addition to numerous EERs associated with coding genes, we identified a population of prospective noncoding EERs that were distant from protein-coding genes and that had little or no coding potential. Finally, subsets of EERs are differentially expressed during development as well as during starvation and infection with bacterial or fungal pathogens. By combining RNA-seq with freely available bioinformatics tools, our workflow provides an easily accessible approach for the identification of dsRNAs, and more importantly, a catalog of the C. elegans dsRNAome. 	According to the World Health organization, half the world's population is at risk of contracting malaria. They estimated that in 2010 there were 219 million cases of malaria, resulting in 660,000 deaths and an enormous economic burden on the countries where malaria is endemic. The adoption of various high-throughput genomics-based techniques by malaria researchers has meant that new avenues to the study of this disease are being explored and new targets for controlling the disease are being developed. Here, we apply a novel neighborhood subnetwork alignment approach to identify the interacting elements that help regulate the cell cycle of the malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum. Our novel subnetwork alignment approach was used to compare networks in Escherichia coli and P. falciparum. Some 574 P. falciparum proteins were revealed as functional orthologs of known cell cycle proteins in E. coli. Over one third of these predicted functional orthologs were annotated as &quot;conserved Plasmodium proteins&quot; or &quot;putative uncharacterized proteins&quot; of unknown function. The predicted functionalities included cyclins, kinases, surface antigens, transcriptional regulators and various functions related to DNA replication, repair and cell division. The results of our analysis demonstrate the power of our subnetwork alignment approach to assign functionality to previously unannotated proteins. Here, the focus was on proteins involved in cell cycle regulation. These proteins are involved in the control of diverse aspects of the parasite lifecycle and of important aspects of pathogenesis.	DNA methylation has been linked to many important biological phenomena. Researchers have recently begun to sequence bisulfite treated DNA to determine its pattern of methylation. However, sequencing reads from bisulfite-converted DNA can vary significantly from the reference genome because of incomplete bisulfite conversion, genome variation, sequencing errors, and poor quality bases. Therefore, it is often difficult to align reads to the correct locations in the reference genome. Furthermore, bisulfite sequencing experiments have the additional complexity of having to estimate the DNA methylation levels within the sample. Here, we present a highly accurate probabilistic algorithm, which is an extension of the Genomic Next-generation Universal MAPper to accommodate bisulfite sequencing data (GNUMAP-bs), that addresses the computational problems associated with aligning bisulfite sequencing data to a reference genome. GNUMAP-bs integrates uncertainty from read and mapping qualities to help resolve the difference between poor quality bases and the ambiguity inherent in bisulfite conversion. We tested GNUMAP-bs and other commonly-used bisulfite alignment methods using both simulated and real bisulfite reads and found that GNUMAP-bs and other dynamic programming methods were more accurate than the more heuristic methods. The GNUMAP-bs aligner is a highly accurate alignment approach for processing the data from bisulfite sequencing experiments. The GNUMAP-bs algorithm is freely available for download at: http://dna.cs.byu.edu/gnumap. The software runs on multiple threads and multiple processors to increase the alignment speed.	Malaria causes over one million deaths annually, posing an enormous health and economic burden in endemic regions. The completion of genome sequencing of the causative agents, a group of parasites in the genus Plasmodium, revealed potential drug and vaccine candidates. However, genomics-driven target discovery has been significantly hampered by our limited knowledge of the cellular networks associated with parasite development and pathogenesis. In this paper, we propose an approach based on aligning neighborhood PPI subnetworks across species to identify network components in the malaria parasite P. falciparum. Instead of only relying on sequence similarities to detect functional orthologs, our approach measures the conservation between the neighborhood subnetworks in protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks in two species, P. falciparum and E. coli. 1,082 P. falciparum proteins were predicted as functional orthologs of known transcriptional regulators in the E. coli network, including general transcriptional regulators, parasite-specific transcriptional regulators in the ApiAP2 protein family, and other potential regulatory proteins. They are implicated in a variety of cellular processes involving chromatin remodeling, genome integrity, secretion, invasion, protein processing, and metabolism. In this proof-of-concept study, we demonstrate that a subnetwork alignment approach can reveal previously uncharacterized members of the subnetworks, which opens new opportunities to identify potential therapeutic targets and provide new insights into parasite biology, pathogenesis and virulence. This approach can be extended to other systems, especially those with poor genome annotation and a paucity of knowledge about cellular networks.	Emerging next-generation sequencing technologies have revolutionized the collection of genomic data for applications in bioforensics, biosurveillance, and for use in clinical settings. However, to make the most of these new data, new methodology needs to be developed that can accommodate large volumes of genetic data in a computationally efficient manner. We present a statistical framework to analyze raw next-generation sequence reads from purified or mixed environmental or targeted infected tissue samples for rapid species identification and strain attribution against a robust database of known biological agents. Our method, Pathoscope, capitalizes on a Bayesian statistical framework that accommodates information on sequence quality, mapping quality, and provides posterior probabilities of matches to a known database of target genomes. Importantly, our approach also incorporates the possibility that multiple species can be present in the sample and considers cases when the sample species/strain is not in the reference database. Furthermore, our approach can accurately discriminate between very closely related strains of the same species with very little coverage of the genome and without the need for multiple alignment steps, extensive homology searches, or genome assembly--which are time-consuming and labor-intensive steps. We demonstrate the utility of our approach on genomic data from purified and in silico &quot;environmental&quot; samples from known bacterial agents impacting human health for accuracy assessment and comparison with other approaches.	Understanding the categorization of human diseases is critical for reliably identifying disease causal genes. Recently, genome-wide studies of abnormal chromosomal locations related to diseases have mapped &gt;2000 phenotype-gene relations, which provide valuable information for classifying diseases and identifying candidate genes as drug targets. In this article, a regularized non-negative matrix tri-factorization (R-NMTF) algorithm is introduced to co-cluster phenotypes and genes, and simultaneously detect associations between the detected phenotype clusters and gene clusters. The R-NMTF algorithm factorizes the phenotype-gene association matrix under the prior knowledge from phenotype similarity network and protein-protein interaction network, supervised by the label information from known disease classes and biological pathways. In the experiments on disease phenotype-gene associations in OMIM and KEGG disease pathways, R-NMTF significantly improved the classification of disease phenotypes and disease pathway genes compared with support vector machines and Label Propagation in cross-validation on the annotated phenotypes and genes. The newly predicted phenotypes in each disease class are highly consistent with human phenotype ontology annotations. The roles of the new member genes in the disease pathways are examined and validated in the protein-protein interaction subnetworks. Extensive literature review also confirmed many new members of the disease classes and pathways as well as the predicted associations between disease phenotype classes and pathways.
Hu, Bo	Quantitative Health Sciences	29518270	29471147	27895266	26179943	24747226	23710259	22535711	22402803	20819841	18355383	Charcot-Marie-Tooth type 4J (CMT4J) is a rare autosomal recessive neuropathy caused by mutations in FIG4 that result in loss of FIG4 protein. This study investigates the natural history and mechanisms of segmental demyelination in CMT4J. Over the past 9 years, we have enrolled and studied a cohort of 12 CMT4J patients, including 6 novel FIG4 mutations. We evaluated these patients and related mouse models using morphological, electrophysiological, and biochemical approaches. We found sensory motor demyelinating polyneuropathy consistently in all patients. This underlying myelin pathology was associated with nonuniform slowing of conduction velocities, conduction block, and temporal dispersion on nerve conduction studies, which resemble those features in acquired demyelinating peripheral nerve diseases. Segmental demyelination was also confirmed in mice without Fig4 (Fig4<sup>-/-</sup> ). The demyelination was associated with an increase of Schwann cell dedifferentiation and macrophages in spinal roots where nerve-blood barriers are weak. Schwann cell dedifferentiation was induced by the increasing intracellular Ca<sup>2+</sup> . Suppression of Ca<sup>2+</sup> level by a chelator reduced dedifferentiation and demyelination of Schwann cells in vitro and in vivo. Interestingly, cell-specific knockout of Fig4 in mouse Schwann cells or neurons failed to cause segmental demyelination. Myelin change in CMT4J recapitulates the features of acquired demyelinating neuropathies. This pathology is not Schwann cell autonomous. Instead, it relates to systemic processes involving interactions of multiple cell types and abnormally elevated intracellular Ca<sup>2+</sup> . Injection of a Ca<sup>2+</sup> chelator into Fig4<sup>-/-</sup> mice improved segmental demyelination, thereby providing a therapeutic strategy against demyelination. Ann Neurol 2018;83:756-770.	Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is a non-scarring alternative for treating basal cell carcinoma (BCC) in patients with Basal Cell Nevus Syndrome (BCNS), also known as Gorlin syndrome. In Europe, red light (635 nm) is the predominant source for PDT, whereas in the United States blue light (400 nm) is more widely available. The objective of this study was to conduct a head-to-head comparison of blue light and red light PDT in the same BCNS patients. In a pilot study of three patients with 141 BCC lesions, 5-aminolevulinate (20% solution) was applied to all tumors. After 4 h, half of the tumors were illuminated with blue light and the remainder with red light. To ensure safety while treating this many tumors simultaneously, light doses were escalated gradually. Six treatments were administered in three biweekly sessions over 4 months, with a final evaluation at 6 months. Tumor status was documented with high-resolution photographs. Persistent lesions were biopsied at 6 months. Clearance rates after blue light (98%) were slightly better than after red light (93%), with blue light shown to be statistically non-inferior to red light. Eight suspicious lesions were biopsied, 5 after red light (5/5 were BCC) and 3 after blue light (1 was BCC). Blue light PDT was reportedly less painful. Blue light and red light PDT appear to be equally safe and perhaps equally effective for treating BCC tumors in BCNS patients. Further studies to evaluate long-term clearance after blue light PDT are needed.	The time-dependent receiver operating characteristic curve is often used to study the diagnostic accuracy of a single continuous biomarker, measured at baseline, on the onset of a disease condition when the disease onset may occur at different times during the follow-up and hence may be right censored. Due to right censoring, the true disease onset status prior to the pre-specified time horizon may be unknown for some patients, which causes difficulty in calculating the time-dependent sensitivity and specificity. We propose to estimate the time-dependent sensitivity and specificity by weighting the censored data by the conditional probability of disease onset prior to the time horizon given the biomarker, the observed time to event, and the censoring indicator, with the weights calculated nonparametrically through a kernel regression on time to event. With this nonparametric weighting adjustment, we derive a novel, closed-form formula to calculate the area under the time-dependent receiver operating characteristic curve. We demonstrate through numerical study and theoretical arguments that the proposed method is insensitive to misspecification of the kernel bandwidth, produces unbiased and efficient estimators of time-dependent sensitivity and specificity, the area under the curve, and other estimands from the receiver operating characteristic curve, and outperforms several other published methods currently implemented in R packages.	Longitudinal cohort studies often collect both repeated measurements of longitudinal outcomes and times to clinical events whose occurrence precludes further longitudinal measurements. Although joint modeling of the clinical events and the longitudinal data can be used to provide valid statistical inference for target estimands in certain contexts, the application of joint models in medical literature is currently rather restricted because of the complexity of the joint models and the intensive computation involved. We propose a multiple imputation approach to jointly impute missing data of both the longitudinal and clinical event outcomes. With complete imputed datasets, analysts are then able to use simple and transparent statistical methods and standard statistical software to perform various analyses without dealing with the complications of missing data and joint modeling. We show that the proposed multiple imputation approach is flexible and easy to implement in practice. Numerical results are also provided to demonstrate its performance. Copyright © 2015 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.	Statistical methods to identify symptom clusters (SC) have varied between studies. The optimal statistical method to identify SC is unknown. Our primary objective was to explore whether eight different statistical techniques applied to a single data set produced different SC. A secondary objective was to investigate whether SC identified by these techniques resembled those from our original study. We reanalyzed a symptom data set of 1000 patients with advanced cancer. Eight separate cluster analyses were conducted on both prevalence and severity of 38 symptoms. Hierarchical cluster analysis identified clusters at r-values of 0.6, 0.5, and 0.4. For prevalence and severity, the Spearman correlation and Kendall tau-b correlation, respectively, measured the similarity (distance) between symptom pairs. Sensitivity analysis of the prevalence data was done with Cohen kappa coefficient as a similarity measure. The K-means clustering method validated clusters. Hierarchical cluster analysis identified similar cluster configurations from the 38 symptoms using an r-value of 0.6, 0.5, or 0.4. A cutoff point of 0.6 yielded seven clusters. Five of them were identical at all three r-values used: (1) fatigue/anorexia-cachexia: anorexia, dry mouth, early satiety, fatigue, lack of energy, taste changes, weakness, and weight loss (&gt;10%); (2) gastrointestinal: belching, bloating, dyspepsia, and hiccough; (3) nausea/vomiting: nausea and vomiting; (4) aerodigestive: cough, dysphagia, dyspnea, hoarseness, and wheeze; (5) neurologic: confusion, hallucinations, and memory problems. Regardless of the threshold, there were always some symptoms (e.g., pain) that did not cluster with any others. Seven clusters were validated by K-means analysis. Seven SC identified from both prevalence and severity data were consistently present irrespective of the statistical analysis used. There were only minor variations in the number of clusters and their symptom composition between analytical techniques. All seven clusters originally identified were confirmed. Four consistent SC were found in all analyses: aerodigestive, fatigue/anorexia-cachexia, nausea/vomiting, and upper GI. Our results support the clinical importance of the SC concept.	Allele-specific methylation (ASM) has long been studied but mainly documented in the context of genomic imprinting and X chromosome inactivation. Taking advantage of the next-generation sequencing technology, we conduct a high-throughput sequencing experiment with four prostate cell lines to survey the whole genome and identify single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) with ASM. A Bayesian approach is proposed to model the counts of short reads for each SNP conditional on its genotypes of multiple subjects, leading to a posterior probability of ASM. We flag SNPs with high posterior probabilities of ASM by accounting for multiple comparisons based on posterior false discovery rates. Applying the Bayesian approach to the in-house prostate cell line data, we identify 269 SNPs as candidates of ASM. A simulation study is carried out to demonstrate the quantitative performance of the proposed approach.	This paper proposes a nonparametric procedure to describe the progression of longitudinal cohorts over time from a population averaged perspective, leading to multistate probability curves with the states defined jointly by survival and longitudinal outcomes measured with error. To account for the challenges of informative dropout and nonlinear shapes of the longitudinal trajectories, we apply a bias corrected penalized spline regression to estimate the unobserved longitudinal trajectory for each subject. We then estimate the multistate probability curves on the basis of the survival data and the estimated longitudinal trajectories. We further use simulation-extrapolation method to reduce the estimation bias caused by the randomness of the estimated trajectories. We develop a bootstrap test to compare multistate probability curves between groups. We present theoretical justification of the estimation procedure along with a simulation study to demonstrate finite sample performance. We illustrate the procedure by data from the African American Study of Kidney Disease and Hypertension, and it can be widely applied in longitudinal studies.	The typical assumption is that patients with CKD will have progressive nephropathy. Methodological issues, such as measurement error and regression to the mean, have made it difficult to document whether kidney function might improve in some patients. Here, we used data from 12 years of follow-up in the African American Study of Kidney Disease and Hypertension to determine whether some patients with CKD can experience a sustained improvement in GFR. We calculated estimated GFR (eGFR) based on serum creatinine measurements during both the trial and cohort phases. We defined clearly improved patients as those with positive eGFR slopes that we could not explain by random measurement variation under Bayesian mixed-effects models. Of 949 patients with at least three follow-up eGFR measurements, 31 (3.3%) demonstrated clearly positive eGFR slopes. The mean slope among these patients was +1.06 (0.12) ml/min per 1.73 m(2) per yr, compared with -2.45 (0.07) ml/min per 1.73 m(2) per yr among the remaining patients. During the trial phase, 24 (77%) of these 31 patients also had clearly positive slopes of (125)I-iothalamate-measured GFR during the trial phase. Low levels of proteinuria at baseline and randomization to the lower BP goal (mean arterial pressure ≤92 mmHg) associated with improved eGFR. In conclusion, the extended follow-up from this study provides strong evidence that kidney function can improve in some patients with hypertensive CKD.	We propose to adaptively insert new doses during the course of a dose-finding trial when none of the prespecified doses in the trial are acceptable, for example, have tolerable toxicity. Our procedure uses an activation rule to determine whether a new dose is needed and an inverse dose-response algorithm to estimate new doses to be inserted into the trial. The proposed method can be applied to both one-agent and two-agent trials. In application to a Phase I trial about advanced ovarian cancer, our method selected a new dose that is better than all prespecified doses in at least 44% simulations. The effectiveness of the procedure was also demonstrated in a simulation study. The proposed method is applicable to dose-finding trials with binary responses. We believe that with the added adaptive dose insertion, traditional dose-finding trials will have better chances of locating desirable doses. In addition, by allowing for dose insertion, unnecessary trial suspension due to lack of acceptable doses can be avoided.	Inverse dose-response estimation refers to the inference of an effective dose of some agent that gives a desired probability of response, say 0.5. We consider inverse dose response for two agents, an application that has not received much attention in the literature. Through the posterior profiling technique (Hsu, 1995, The Canadian Journal of Statistics 23, 399-410), we propose a Bayesian method in which we approximate the marginal posterior distribution of an effective dose using a profile posterior distribution, and obtain the maximum a posteriori (MAP) estimate for the effective dose. We then employ an adaptive direction sampling algorithm to obtain the highest posterior density (HPD) credible region for the effective dose. Using the MAP and HPD estimates, investigators will be able to simultaneously calibrate the levels of two agents in dose-response studies. We illustrate our proposed Bayesian method through a simulation study and two practical examples.
Hu, Ming	Quantitative Health Sciences	30986246	30746303	26969411	18302784	26124977	23382666	27153668	26543175	28877673	27851967	Hi-C and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) have been combined to identify long-range chromatin interactions genome-wide at reduced cost and enhanced resolution, but extracting information from the resulting datasets has been challenging. Here we describe a computational method, MAPS, Model-based Analysis of PLAC-seq and HiChIP, to process the data from such experiments and identify long-range chromatin interactions. MAPS adopts a zero-truncated Poisson regression framework to explicitly remove systematic biases in the PLAC-seq and HiChIP datasets, and then uses the normalized chromatin contact frequencies to identify significant chromatin interactions anchored at genomic regions bound by the protein of interest. MAPS shows superior performance over existing software tools in the analysis of chromatin interactions from multiple PLAC-seq and HiChIP datasets centered on different transcriptional factors and histone marks. MAPS is freely available at https://github.com/ijuric/MAPS.	To establish a predictive model of macular hole (MH) closure speed. This study was a post hoc analysis of eyes that underwent full-thickness MH repair in the prospective PIONEER intraoperative optical coherence tomography (iOCT) study. The Bioptigen SDOIS system was used for iOCT imaging. All patients underwent standard small-gauge vitrectomy with internal limiting membrane (ILM) peeling, gas tamponade, and postoperative facedown positioning. Before vitrectomy and after ILM peeling, various quantitative OCT measures related to MH were obtained, including MH geometry alterations and outer retinal features. Trans-gas OCT was performed on postoperative day 1 to evaluate MH closure. Univariate and multivariate analyses were conducted to identify predictors of early MH closure (i.e., postoperative day 1 [POD 1] closure). Thirty-two (86%) out of 37 eyes were confirmed for MH closure at POD 1. At 3 months, MH closure was achieved in 35 (95%) eyes. After multivariate logistic regression analyses, seven covariates were determined as predictors for MH closure. These seven covariates included age, ellipsoid zone-retinal pigment epithelium expansion following ILM peel, preincision minimal width, post-ILM peel MH depth, change in MH volume, change in minimum MH width, and change in MH depth. Using these seven covariates, the area under the curve was 0.974. Cross-validation analysis indicated that intraoperative change in MH volume, intraoperative change in minimal width, and preincision minimal width were the most robust predictors for early MH. This study suggests that iOCT may be important in predicting MH closure speed and may be a surrogate for tissue properties/behavior. A future prospective clinical trial is needed to validate this model. This study provides unique insights into the potential role of iOCT imaging in predicting retinal tissue behavior during MH repair.	Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified thousands of genetic variants associated with complex traits and diseases. However, most of them are located in the non-protein coding regions, and therefore it is challenging to hypothesize the functions of these non-coding GWAS variants. Recent large efforts such as the ENCODE and Roadmap Epigenomics projects have predicted a large number of regulatory elements. However, the target genes of these regulatory elements remain largely unknown. Chromatin conformation capture based technologies such as Hi-C can directly measure the chromatin interactions and have generated an increasingly comprehensive catalog of the interactome between the distal regulatory elements and their potential target genes. Leveraging such information revealed by Hi-C holds the promise of elucidating the functions of genetic variants in human diseases. In this work, we present HiView, the first integrative genome browser to leverage Hi-C results for the interpretation of GWAS variants. HiView is able to display Hi-C data and statistical evidence for chromatin interactions in genomic regions surrounding any given GWAS variant, enabling straightforward visualization and interpretation. We believe that as the first GWAS variants-centered Hi-C genome browser, HiView is a useful tool guiding post-GWAS functional genomics studies. HiView is freely accessible at: http://www.unc.edu/~yunmli/HiView .	Mining gene patterns that are common to multiple genomes is an important biological problem, which can lead us to novel biological insights. When family classification of genes is available, this problem is similar to the pattern mining problem in the data mining community. However, when family classification information is not available, mining gene patterns is a challenging problem. There are several well developed algorithms for predicting gene patterns in a pair of genomes, such as FISH and DAGchainer. These algorithms use the optimization problem formulation which is solved using the dynamic programming technique. Unfortunately, extending these algorithms to multiple genome cases is not trivial due to the rapid increase in time and space complexity. In this paper, we propose a novel algorithm for mining gene patterns in more than two prokaryote genomes using interchangeable sets. The basic idea is to extend the pattern mining technique from the data mining community to handle the situation where family classification information is not available using interchangeable sets. In an experiment with four newly sequenced genomes (where the gene annotation is unavailable), we show that the gene pattern can capture important biological information. To examine the effectiveness of gene patterns further, we propose an ortholog prediction method based on our gene pattern mining algorithm and compare our method to the bi-directional best hit (BBH) technique in terms of COG orthologous gene classification information. The experiment show that our algorithm achieves a 3% increase in recall compared to BBH without sacrificing the precision of ortholog detection. The discovered gene patterns can be used for the detecting of ortholog and genes that collaborate for a common biological function.	Understanding how chromosomes fold provides insights into the transcription regulation, hence, the functional state of the cell. Using the next generation sequencing technology, the recently developed Hi-C approach enables a global view of spatial chromatin organization in the nucleus, which substantially expands our knowledge about genome organization and function. However, due to multiple layers of biases, noises and uncertainties buried in the protocol of Hi-C experiments, analyzing and interpreting Hi-C data poses great challenges, and requires novel statistical methods to be developed. This article provides an overview of recent Hi-C studies and their impacts on biomedical research, describes major challenges in statistical analysis of Hi-C data, and discusses some perspectives for future research.	Knowledge of spatial chromosomal organizations is critical for the study of transcriptional regulation and other nuclear processes in the cell. Recently, chromosome conformation capture (3C) based technologies, such as Hi-C and TCC, have been developed to provide a genome-wide, three-dimensional (3D) view of chromatin organization. Appropriate methods for analyzing these data and fully characterizing the 3D chromosomal structure and its structural variations are still under development. Here we describe a novel Bayesian probabilistic approach, denoted as &quot;Bayesian 3D constructor for Hi-C data&quot; (BACH), to infer the consensus 3D chromosomal structure. In addition, we describe a variant algorithm BACH-MIX to study the structural variations of chromatin in a cell population. Applying BACH and BACH-MIX to a high resolution Hi-C dataset generated from mouse embryonic stem cells, we found that most local genomic regions exhibit homogeneous 3D chromosomal structures. We further constructed a model for the spatial arrangement of chromatin, which reveals structural properties associated with euchromatic and heterochromatic regions in the genome. We observed strong associations between structural properties and several genomic and epigenetic features of the chromosome. Using BACH-MIX, we further found that the structural variations of chromatin are correlated with these genomic and epigenetic features. Our results demonstrate that BACH and BACH-MIX have the potential to provide new insights into the chromosomal architecture of mammalian cells.	How chromatin folds in three-dimensional (3D) space is closely related to transcription regulation. As powerful tools to study such 3D chromatin conformation, the recently developed Hi-C technologies enable a genome-wide measurement of pair-wise chromatin interaction. However, methods for the detection of biologically meaningful chromatin interactions, i.e. peak calling, from Hi-C data, are still under development. In our previous work, we have developed a novel hidden Markov random field (HMRF) based Bayesian method, which through explicitly modeling the non-negligible spatial dependency among adjacent pairs of loci manifesting in high resolution Hi-C data, achieves substantially improved robustness and enhanced statistical power in peak calling. Superior to peak callers that ignore spatial dependency both methodologically and in performance, our previous Bayesian framework suffers from heavy computational costs due to intensive computation incurred by modeling the correlated peak status of neighboring loci pairs and the inference of hidden dependency structure. In this work, we have developed FastHiC, a novel approach based on simulated field approximation, which approximates the joint distribution of the hidden peak status by a set of independent random variables, leading to more tractable computation. Performance comparisons in real data analysis showed that FastHiC not only speeds up our original Bayesian method by more than five times, bus also achieves higher peak calling accuracy. FastHiC is freely accessible at:http://www.unc.edu/∼yunmli/FastHiC/ CONTACTS: : yunli@med.unc.edu or ming.hu@nyumc.org Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics online.	Advances in chromosome conformation capture and next-generation sequencing technologies are enabling genome-wide investigation of dynamic chromatin interactions. For example, Hi-C experiments generate genome-wide contact frequencies between pairs of loci by sequencing DNA segments ligated from loci in close spatial proximity. One essential task in such studies is peak calling, that is, detecting non-random interactions between loci from the two-dimensional contact frequency matrix. Successful fulfillment of this task has many important implications including identifying long-range interactions that assist interpreting a sizable fraction of the results from genome-wide association studies. The task - distinguishing biologically meaningful chromatin interactions from massive numbers of random interactions - poses great challenges both statistically and computationally. Model-based methods to address this challenge are still lacking. In particular, no statistical model exists that takes the underlying dependency structure into consideration. In this paper, we propose a hidden Markov random field (HMRF) based Bayesian method to rigorously model interaction probabilities in the two-dimensional space based on the contact frequency matrix. By borrowing information from neighboring loci pairs, our method demonstrates superior reproducibility and statistical power in both simulation studies and real data analysis. The Source codes can be downloaded at: http://www.unc.edu/∼yunmli/HMRFBayesHiC CONTACT: ming.hu@nyumc.org or yunli@med.unc.edu Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics online.	Inferring local ancestry in individuals of mixed ancestry has many applications, most notably in identifying disease-susceptible loci that vary among different ethnic groups. Many software packages are available for inferring local ancestry in admixed individuals. However, most of these existing software packages require specific formatted input files and generate output files in various types, yielding practical inconvenience. We developed a tool set, Local Ancestry Inference Toolkit (LAIT), which can convert standardized files into software-specific input file formats as well as standardize and summarize inference results for four popular local ancestry inference software: HAPMIX, LAMP, LAMP-LD, and ELAI. We tested LAIT using both simulated and real data sets and demonstrated that LAIT provides convenience to run multiple local ancestry inference software. In addition, we evaluated the performance of local ancestry software among different supported software packages, mainly focusing on inference accuracy and computational resources used. We provided a toolkit to facilitate the use of local ancestry inference software, especially for users with limited bioinformatics background.	The three-dimensional configuration of DNA is integral to all nuclear processes in eukaryotes, yet our knowledge of the chromosome architecture is still limited. Genome-wide chromosome conformation capture studies have uncovered features of chromatin organization in cultured cells, but genome architecture in human tissues has yet to be explored. Here, we report the most comprehensive survey to date of chromatin organization in human tissues. Through integrative analysis of chromatin contact maps in 21 primary human tissues and cell types, we find topologically associating domains highly conserved in different tissues. We also discover genomic regions that exhibit unusually high levels of local chromatin interactions. These frequently interacting regions (FIREs) are enriched for super-enhancers and are near tissue-specifically expressed genes. They display strong tissue-specificity in local chromatin interactions. Additionally, FIRE formation is partially dependent on CTCF and the Cohesin complex. We further show that FIREs can help annotate the function of non-coding sequence variants.
Huang, Emina	Cancer Biology	30738331	29983891	29560130	28881576	24643495	22914954	22902411	21779143	20186482	19808966	Dysfunctional inflammatory pathways are associated with an increased risk of cancer, including colorectal cancer. We have previously identified and enriched for a self-renewing, colon cancer stem cell (CCSC) subpopulation in primary sporadic colorectal cancers (CRC) and a related subpopulation in ulcerative colitis (UC) patients defined by the stem cell marker, aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH). Subsequent work demonstrated that CCSC-initiated tumors are dependent on the inflammatory chemokine, CXCL8, a known inducer of tumor proliferation, angiogenesis and invasion. Here, we use RNA interference to target CXCL8 and its receptor, CXCR1, to establish the existence of a functional signaling pathway promoting tumor growth initiated by sporadic and colitis CCSCs. Knocking down either CXCL8 or CXCR1 had a dramatic effect on inhibiting both in vitro proliferation and angiogenesis. Likewise, tumorigenicity was significantly inhibited due to reduced levels of proliferation and angiogenesis. Decreased expression of cycle cell regulators cyclins D1 and B1 along with increased p21 levels suggested that the reduction in tumor growth is due to dysregulation of cell cycle progression. Therapeutically targeting the CXCL8-CXCR1 signaling pathway has the potential to block sustained tumorigenesis by inhibiting both CCSC- and pCCSC-induced proliferation and angiogenesis.	Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a prevalent form of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) whose pathogenic mechanisms remain unclear. Elucidating these mechanisms is important to reduce UC symptoms and to prevent UC progression into colitis-associated colon cancer (CAC). Our goal was to develop and validate faithful, human-derived, UC models and analyze them at histologic, transcriptomic and epigenetic levels to allow mechanistic studies of UC and CAC pathogenesis. We generated patient-derived primary-organoid cultures from UC and non-IBD colonic epithelium. We phenotyped them histologically and used next-generation-sequencing approaches to profile whole transcriptomes and epigenomes of organoids and primary tissues. Tissue organization and expression of mucin 2 (MUC2) and lysozyme (LYZ) demonstrated histologic faithfulness of organoids to healthy and diseased colonic epithelium. Transcriptomic analyses showed increased expression of inflammatory pathways in UC patient-derived organoids and tissues. Profiling for active enhancers using the H3K27ac histone modification revealed UC-derived organoid enrichment for pathways indicative of gastrointestinal cancer, including S100 calcium-binding protein P (S100P), and revealed novel markers for GI cancer, including both LYZ and neuropeptide S receptor 1 (NPSR1). Immunolocalization showed increased levels of LYZ, S100P, and NPSR1 proteins in UC and CAC. In conclusion, primary colonic organoid cultures from UC and non-IBD patients can be established that faithfully represent diseased or normal colonic states. These models reveal precancerous molecular pathways that are already activated in UC. The findings demonstrate the suitability of primary organoids for dissecting UC and CAC pathogenic mechanisms and suggest new targets for therapeutic intervention.	Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) affects one million people in the US. Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a subtype of IBD that can lead to colitis-associated cancer (CAC). In UC, the rate of CAC is 3-5-fold greater than the rate of sporadic colorectal cancer (CRC). The pathogenesis of UC and CAC are due to aberrant interactions between host immune system and microenvironment, but precise mechanisms are still unknown. In colitis and CAC, microenvironmental fibroblasts exhibit an activated, inflammatory phenotype that contributes to tumorigenesis accompanied by excessive secretion of the chemokine CXCL8. However, mechanisms regulating CXCL8 secretion are unclear. Since it is known that miRNAs regulate chemokines such as CXCL8, we queried a microRNA library for mimics affecting CXCL8 secretion. Among the identified microRNAs, miR-20a/b was further investigated as its stromal expression levels inversely correlated with the amounts of CXCL8 secreted and predicted fibroblast tumor-promoting activity. Indeed, miR-20a directly bound to the 3'UTR of CXCL8 mRNA and regulated its expression by translational repression. In vivo co-inoculation studies with CRC stem cells demonstrated that fibroblasts characterized by high miR-20a expression had reduced tumor-promoting activities. These studies reveal that in stromal fibroblasts, miR-20a modulates CXCL8 function, therefore influencing tumor latency.	In sporadic colon cancer, colon cancer stem cells (CCSCs) initiate tumorigenesis and may contribute to late disease recurrences and metastases. We previously showed that aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) activity (as indicated by the ALDEFLUOR<sup>®</sup> assay) is an effective marker for highly enriching CCSCs for further evaluation. Here, we used comparative transcriptome and proteome approaches to identify signaling pathways overrepresented in the CCSC population. We found overexpression of several components of the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt/mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway, including PI3KR2, a regulatory subunit of PI3K. LY294002, a PI3K inhibitor, defined the contribution of the PI3K/Akt/mTOR signaling pathway in CCSCs. LY294002-treated CCSCs showed decreases in proliferation, sphere formation and self-renewal, in phosphorylation-dependent activation of Akt, and in expression of cyclin D1. Inhibition of PI3K in vivo reduced tumorigenicity, increased detection of cleaved caspase 3, an indicator of apoptosis, and elevated expression of the inflammatory chemokine, CXCL8. Collectively, these results indicate that PI3K/Akt/mTOR signaling controls CCSC proliferation and CCSC survival, and suggests that it would be useful to develop therapeutic agents that target this signaling pathway.	Colorectal cancer remains the most common gastrointestinal cancer. While screening combined with effective surgical treatment has reduced its mortality, we still do not have effective means to prevent recurrence nor to treat metastatic disease. What we know about cancer biology has gone through revolutionary changes in recent decades. The advent of the cancer stem cell theory has accelerated our understanding of the cancer cell. However, there is increasing evidence that cancer cells are influenced by their surrounding microenvironment. This review divides the tumor microenvironment into four functional components-the stem cell niche, cancer stroma, immune cells, and vascular endothelia-and examines their individual and collective influence on the growth and metastasis of the colon cancer stem cell. The discussion will highlight the need to fully exploit the tumor microenvironment when designing future prognostic tools and therapies.	Aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) can be used as a marker to isolate, propagate, and track normal and cancerous human colon stem cells. To determine their tumorigenic potential, tissues obtained from proximal (normal counterpart) and distal (cancerous) colon of colon cancer patients are implanted into NOD-SCID mice. In parallel, ALDH(high) and ALDH(low) cells are isolated via Florescence Associated Cell Sorting (FACS) after the dissociation of distal and proximal colon tissues into a single-cell suspension. Flow cytometry for ALDH(high) and ALDH(low) cells is possible with the ALDEFLUOR assay. Following cell sorting, ALDH-enriched cells are tested for their tumorigenic potential in vivo as xenografts. Owing to cancer stem cell properties, ALDH(high) cells could be propagated in vivo by serial passaging of the human tissue as xenografts and in vitro as suspension cultures called sphere cultures. In this unit, all the above-mentioned methods to isolate and propagate colon cancer stem cells using ALDH as a stem cell marker are described in detail.	Ulcerative colitis (UC) increases the risk of colorectal cancer (CRC), but the mechanisms involved in colitis-to-cancer transition (CCT) are not well understood. CCT may involve a inflammation-dysplasia-carcinoma progression sequence compared with the better characterized adenoma-carcinoma progression sequence associated with sporadic CRC. One common thread may be activating mutations in components of the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway, which occur commonly as early events in sporadic CRC. To examine this hypothesis, we evaluated possible associations between Wnt/β-catenin signaling and CCT based on the cancer stem cell (CSC) model. Wnt/β-catenin immunostaining indicated that UC patients have a level of Wnt-pathway-active cells that is intermediate between normal colon and CRC. These UC cells exhibiting activation of the Wnt pathway constituted a major subpopulation (52% + 7.21) of the colonic epithelial cells positive for aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH), a putative marker of precursor colon CSC (pCCSC). We further fractionated this subpopulation of pCCSC using a Wnt pathway reporter assay. Over successive passages, pCCSCs with the highest Wnt activity exhibited higher clonogenic and tumorigenic potential than pCCSCs with the lowest Wnt activity, thereby establishing the key role of Wnt activity in driving CSC-like properties in these cells. Notably, 5/20 single cell injections of high-Wnt pCCSC resulted in tumor formation, suggesting a correlation with CCT. Attenuation of Wnt/β-catenin in high-Wnt pCCSC by shRNA-mediated downregulation or pharmacological inhibition significantly reduced tumor growth rates. Overall, the results of our study indicates (i) that early activation of Wnt/β-catenin signaling is critical for CCT and (ii) that high levels of Wnt/β-catenin signaling can further demarcate high-ALDH tumor-initiating cells in the nondysplastic epithelium of UC patients. As such, our findings offer plausible diagnostic markers and therapeutic target in the Wnt signaling pathway for early intervention in CCT.	Advances in molecular biology have defined the molecular basis for colorectal cancer (CRC). Though only a fraction of CRC has been determined to have a hereditary component, the discovery of genetic alterations in these clinical syndromes has permitted definition of similar discoveries in sporadic CRC. Here we will delineate the molecular basis for the most common of these defined syndromes, including familial adenomatous polyposis, hereditary non-polyposis colon cancer, MUTYH associated polyposis, Juvenile polyposis, Peutz-Jeghers syndrome, and Cowden's syndrome. The newest paradigm with implications for the pathogenesis of sporadic CRC is called the cancer stem cell hypothesis. As this paradigm also implicates aberrations in molecular pathways, a brief discussion of this hypothesis is included.	Despite the availability of effective surveillance for colorectal cancer with colonoscopy, relatively few at-risk individuals utilize this option. Colon cancer chemoprevention might be a more acceptable alternative. Some epidemiologic studies have suggested that statins may have chemopreventive effects without the risks of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, but other epidemiologic studies have found no effect of statins. We aimed to evaluate the efficacy of atorvastatin in inducing apoptosis in vitro, in preventing polyp formation in the min mouse, and in preventing tumor growth in nude mice. Atorvastatin rapidly induces apoptosis in the HCT116 colon cancer cell line in vitro, and this effect is reversible with mevalonate and geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate, but less so by farnesyl pyrophosphate. Atorvastatin chow was ineffective in reducing polyp formation in the min mouse model, with no significant effect on polyp number. Atorvastatin was effective in significantly slowing the growth of HCT116 colon cancer cell xenografts in nude mice (p = 0.008). Further, this reduction is due to increased levels of apoptosis. Atorvastatin can induce apoptosis in vitro, through mevalonate and prenylation pathways. Atorvastatin, while not effective in preventing polyp formation in the min mouse model, was very effective in slowing tumor growth in a nude mouse model. Consistent with in vitro findings, increased apoptosis accounted for decreased tumor growth. Statins may have benefit in cancer by slowing tumor growth, rather than preventing tumor initiation.	Patients with chronic ulcerative colitis are at increased risk of developing colorectal cancer. Although current hypotheses suggest that sporadic colorectal cancer is due to inability to control cancer stem cells, the cancer stem cell hypothesis has not yet been validated in colitis-associated cancer. Furthermore, the identification of the colitis to cancer transition is challenging. We recently showed that epithelial cells with the increased expression of aldehyde dehydrogenase in sporadic colon cancer correlate closely with tumor-initiating ability. We sought to determine whether ALDH can be used as a marker to isolate tumor-initiating populations from patients with chronic ulcerative colitis. We used fluorescence-activated cell sorting to identify precursor colon cancer stem cells from colitis patients and report both their transition to cancerous stem cells in xenografting studies as well as their ability to generate spheres in vitro. Similar to sporadic colon cancer, these colitis-derived tumors were capable of propagation as sphere cultures. However, unlike the origins of sporadic colon cancer, the primary colitic tissues did not express any histologic evidence of dysplasia. To elucidate a potential mechanism for our findings, we compared the stroma of these different environments and determined that at least one paracrine factor is up-regulated in the inflammatory and malignant stroma compared with resting, normal stroma. These data link colitis and cancer identifying potential tumor-initiating cells from colitic patients, suggesting that sphere and/or xenograft formation will be useful to survey colitic patients at risk of developing cancer.
Husni, Elaine	Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences	30980514	29884228	29848385	29688503	29512290	28802776	28623526	27485213	27134270	26476226	The present study was undertaken to evaluate the safety and efficacy of intravenous (IV) golimumab in patients with active psoriatic arthritis (PsA) through 1 year. GO-VIBRANT was a phase III, randomized, placebo-controlled trial of 480 adults with active PsA. Patients were randomized to receive IV placebo (n = 239) or golimumab 2 mg/kg (n = 241) at weeks 0, 4, and every 8 weeks, with placebo crossover to golimumab at weeks 24, 28, and every 8 weeks thereafter. Efficacy through week 52 was assessed using the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) ≥20%, 50%, or 70% improvement criteria (ACR20/50/70), and the Psoriasis Area and Severity Index ≥75% improvement criteria (PASI75). Radiographic progression was measured using the PsA-modified Sharp/van der Heijde score (SHS). Adverse events (AEs) were monitored through week 60. The primary and major secondary end points through week 24 were achieved. At week 52, 76.8% of patients in the golimumab group and 77.0% in the placebo-crossover group achieved an ACR20 response, 58.1% and 53.6%, respectively, achieved an ACR50 response, and 38.6% and 33.9%, respectively, achieved an ACR70 response. Among patients with ≥3% body surface area affected, 71.9% in the golimumab group and 60.6% in the placebo-crossover group achieved a PASI75 response at week 52. Mean change from baseline in total SHS at week 52 was -0.5 in the golimumab group and 0.8 in the placebo-crossover group. Through week 60, 50.9% of all golimumab-treated patients had ≥1 AE, and 5.2% had ≥1 serious AE. There were no opportunistic infections, 2 malignancies, and 1 death in patients treated with golimumab. Sustained improvements in joint and skin disease in patients with PsA were maintained through 1 year in the GO-VIBRANT study. No new safety signals for IV golimumab were identified.	Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients are at high risk of developing cardiovascular disease (CVD). In RA, chronic inflammation may lead to endothelial dysfunction, an early indicator of CVD, owing to diminished nitric oxide (NO) production. Because L-arginine is the sole precursor of NO, we hypothesized that levels of L-arginine metabolic products reflecting NO metabolism are altered in patients with RA. Plasma samples from patients with RA (n = 119) and age- and sex-matched control subjects (n = 238) were used for this study. Using LC-MS/MS, we measured plasma levels of free L-arginine, L-ornithine, L-citrulline, L-N<sup>G</sup>-monomethyl arginine (MMA), asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA), and symmetric dimethylarginine (SDMA). We compared global arginine bioavailability ratio (GABR) (i.e., ratio of L-arginine to L-ornithine + L-citrulline) and arginine methylation index (ArgMI) (i.e., ADMA + SDMA/MMA) in patients with RA vs. control subjects. Plasma arginase activity was measured using a sensitive arginase assay kit. The relationship of L-arginine metabolites and arginase activity to CVD risk factors was evaluated using Pearson's chi-square test. Compared with healthy control subjects, the RA cohort showed significantly lower levels of plasma L-arginine (46.11 ± 17.29 vs. 74.2 ± 22.53 μmol/L, p &lt; 0.001) and GABR (0.36 ± 0.16 vs. 0.73 ± 0.24, p &lt; 0.001), elevated levels of ADMA (0.76 ± 0.12 vs. 0.62 ± 0.12 μmol/L, p &lt; 0.001), SDMA (0.54 ± 0.14 vs. 0.47 ± 0.13 μmol/L, p &lt; 0.001), and ArgMI (6.51 ± 1.86 vs. 5.54 ± 1.51, p &lt; 0.001). We found an approximately fourfold increase in arginase activity (33.8 ± 1.1 vs. 8.4 ± 0.8 U/L, p &lt; 0.001), as well as elevated levels of arginase-mediated L-arginine catalytic product L-ornithine (108.64 ± 30.26 vs. 69.3 ± 20.71 μmol/L, p &lt; 0.001), whereas a nitric oxide synthase (NOS) catalytic product, the L-citrulline level, was diminished in RA (30.32 ± 9.93 vs. 36.17 ± 11.64 μmol/L, p &lt; 0.001). Patients with RA with existing CVD had higher arginase activity than patients with RA without CVD (p = 0.048). Global L-arginine bioavailability was diminished, whereas plasma arginase activity, ADMA, and SDMA levels were elevated, in patients with RA compared with healthy control subjects. Plasma SDMA was associated with hypertension and hyperlipidemia in patients with RA. This dysregulated L-arginine metabolism may function as a potential indicator of CVD risk in patients with RA.	The perceived bother of skin and joint-related manifestations of psoriatic disease may differ among patients, rheumatologists, and dermatologists. This study identified and compared the patient and dermatologist/rheumatologist-perceived bother of psoriatic disease manifestations. Online surveys were administered to patients with both psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis and to dermatologists and rheumatologists. Object-case best-worst scaling was used to identify the most and least bothersome items from a set of five items in a series of questions. Each item set was drawn from 20 items describing psoriatic disease skin and joint symptoms and impacts on daily activities. Survey responses were analyzed using random-parameters logit models for each surveyed group, yielding a relative-bother weight (RBW) for each item compared with joint pain, soreness, or tenderness. Surveys were completed by 200 patients, 150 dermatologists, and 150 rheumatologists. Patients and physicians agreed that joint pain, soreness, and tenderness are among the most bothersome manifestations of psoriatic disease (RBW 1.00). For patients, painful, inflamed, or broken skin (RBW 1.03) was more bothersome, while both rheumatologists and dermatologists considered painful skin much less bothersome (RBW 0.17 and 0.22, respectively) than joint pain. Relative to joint pain, rheumatologists were more likely to perceive other joint symptoms as bothersome, while dermatologists were more likely to perceive other skin symptoms as bothersome. This study has identified important areas of discordance both between patients and physicians and between rheumatologists and dermatologists about the relative bother of a comprehensive set of psoriatic disease symptoms and functional impacts. Both physician specialists should ask patients which manifestations of psoriatic disease are most bothersome to them, as these discussions may have important implications for drug and other patient management options.	Guidelines exist for the use of low-dose aspirin in the general population for primary cardiovascular (CV) prevention, but the risk-benefit considerations may differ in RA. While RA confers an increased CV risk, such patients more likely use NSAIDs and corticosteroids. We conducted a cohort study to assess potential risks and benefits of low-dose aspirin. We estimated incidence rates and hazard ratios (HRs) using Cox regression among subjects with RA but no known CV disease in the Prospective Randomized Evaluation of Celecoxib Integrated Safety Vs Ibuprofen Or Naproxen trial. The primary exposure of interest was low-dose aspirin, and all enrolled patients were provided open-label esomeprazole. The primary composite outcome was major NSAID toxicity, including major adverse CV event (MACE), clinically significant gastrointestinal events, renal events and all-cause mortality. We found 1852 subjects with RA in Prospective Randomized Evaluation of Celecoxib Integrated Safety Vs Ibuprofen Or Naproxen without known CV disease; 540 reported using low-dose aspirin for CV prevention and 1312 did not. Any major NSAID toxicity was observed in 79 (6.0%) non-aspirin users and 37 (6.9%) aspirin users (P = 0.50). Aspirin users experienced all components of the primary outcome at a similar rate to non-users. In fully adjusted models, the risk for major NSAID toxicity was similar between aspirin exposure groups (HR = 1.08, 95% CI: 0.69, 1.69). The risk for MACE was also similar between exposure groups in age- and gender-adjusted models (HR = 1.23, 95% CI: 0.72, 2.10). RA patients using low-dose aspirin with chronic NSAIDs and esomeprazole had a similar risk of major NSAID toxicity and MACE as patients who did not.	Psoriasis of the scalp, face, intertriginous areas, genitals, hands, feet, and nails is often underdiagnosed, and disease management can be challenging. Despite the small surface area commonly affected by psoriasis in these locations, patients have disproportionate levels of physical impairment and emotional distress. Limitations in current disease severity indices do not fully capture the impact of disease on a patient's quality of life, and, combined with limitations in current therapies, many patients do not receive proper or adequate care. In this review, we discuss the clinical manifestations of psoriasis in these less commonly diagnosed areas and its impact on patient quality of life. We also examine clinical studies evaluating the effectiveness of therapies on psoriasis in these regions. This article highlights the need to individualize treatment strategies for psoriasis based on the area of the body that is affected and the emerging role of biologic therapy in this regard.	To assess the psychosocial impact of psoriatic arthritis (PsA), describe how health-related quality of life (QoL) is affected in patients with PsA, discuss measures used to evaluate the psychosocial impact of PsA, and review studies examining the effect of therapy on QoL. A targeted review on the impact of PsA on QoL and the role of tailored psychosocial management in reducing the psychosocial burden of the disease was performed. PubMed literature searches were conducted using the terms PsA, psychosocial burden, QoL, and mood/behavioral changes. Articles were deemed relevant if they presented information regarding the psychosocial impact of PsA, methods used to evaluate these impacts, or ways to manage/improve management of PsA and its resulting comorbidities. The findings of this literature search are descriptively reviewed and the authors׳ expert opinion on their interpretation is provided. The psychosocial burden of PsA negatively affects QoL. Patients suffer from sleep disorders, fatigue, low-level stress, depression and mood/behavioral changes, poor body image, and reduced work productivity. Additionally, each patient responds to pain differently, depending on a variety of psychological factors including personality structure, cognition, and attention to pain. Strategies for evaluating the burdens associated with PsA and the results of properly managing patients with PsA are described. PsA is associated with a considerable psychosocial burden and new assessment tools, specific to PsA, have been developed to help quantify this burden in patients. Future management algorithms of PsA should incorporate appropriate assessment and management of psychological and physical concerns of patients. Furthermore, patients with PsA should be managed by a multidisciplinary team that works in coordination with the patient and their family or caregivers.	Given the increasing number of available treatments for rheumatoid arthritis (RA) with varying efficacy and safety profiles, it is critical to understand the level of trade-offs that patients are willing to make between benefits and risks. Adult patients with moderate to severe RA were invited to participate in a discrete choice experiment that solicited their preferences for hypothetical RA treatments. Each participant was presented with 14 choice cards asking about their preference between two hypothetical RA treatments with varying levels of efficacy, adverse events, and process-related attributes. A multivariable logistic regression model assessed the association between the attributes and the patient's decision and risk-increases were calculated. 510 eligible patients with moderate to severe RA completed the study. The average age of the participants was 56.4 years, 64.7% were female, and 45.1% received biologic agents. To achieve a 50% improvement in physical function, patients were willing to accept risk-increases of 91.1, 4.7, and 18.4% for abnormal laboratory results, cancer, and serious infection, respectively. Similarly, to achieve a 50% reduction in RA-related pain, patients were willing to accept risk-increases of 70.6, 3.7, and 14.2% for each AE. Moreover, patients were willing to trade risk-increases of 42.0, 2.2, and 8.5% for each AE to obtain a 50% reduction in the number of swollen joints. Patients with moderate to severe RA are willing to accept increased treatment risks to achieve improved physical function and disease control. These attributes are helpful to clinicians to make informed treatment choices.	Patients with psoriatic arthritis (PsA) are at an increased risk for cardiovascular (CV) disease. The aim of this study was to identify the frequency of carotid plaque in asymptomatic patients with psoriatic arthritis at baseline and follow-up screening, and to assess for the impact of demonstrating plaque on management of traditional cardiovascular risk factors. Eighty-seven PsA patients underwent carotid duplex ultrasound screening. Repeat carotid duplex ultrasound was offered to all patients between 12 and 30 months. Preventive cardiology referrals were generated for all patients through the electronic health record. Traditional cardiovascular risk factors, medication use, and rates of utilization of preventive cardiology services were compared between patients with and without plaque. Carotid plaque was identified in 34/87 (39 %) of PsA patients. Age and triglyceride levels were predictors of plaque presence. Patients with plaque trended toward higher rates of smoking and diabetes, and higher low-density lipoprotein levels. Only 9/87 (10 %) patients completed at least one visit with preventive cardiology after enrollment despite referral. Low use of statin (21 %) and antiplatelet (27 %) medication was observed. Rates of biologic medication use for PsA were higher (75 %) than studies in similar cohorts of patients with carotid plaque. No association was seen between disease duration or activity and the presence of carotid plaque. Despite demonstration of high cardiac risk by the presence of carotid plaque, implementation of preventive cardiovascular services and rates of statin and antiplatelet use remained low. Age and triglyceride levels were significant variables in predicting plaque presence. There is no evidence that demonstration of plaque resulted in further evaluation or changes in treatment regimens to address heightened cardiovascular risk.	Outcome measures for psoriasis severity are complex because of the heterogeneous presentation of the disease. At the 2015 annual meeting of the Group for Research and Assessment of Psoriasis and Psoriatic Arthritis (GRAPPA), members introduced the Comprehensive Assessment of the Psoriasis Patient (CAPP), a novel disease severity measure to more accurately assess the full burden of plaque psoriasis and subtypes, including inverse, scalp, nail, palmoplantar, and genital psoriasis. The CAPP is based on a 5-point physician's global assessment for 7 psoriasis phenotypes and incorporates visual analog scale-based, patient-derived, patient-reported outcomes. By quantifying disease effects of plaque psoriasis, 6 other psoriasis subtypes, as well as quality of life and daily function, the CAPP survey identifies a subset of psoriasis patients with moderate to severe psoriasis that would not be considered moderate to severe when assessed by the Psoriasis Area and Severity Index. The current version of CAPP is focused entirely on psoriasis. Feedback from our industry colleagues and collaborators has suggested that a psoriatic arthritis (PsA) measure may be important to include in the CAPP. At the 2015 GRAPPA meeting, we administered a survey to 106 GRAPPA members to determine whether a PsA measure should be included. A majority (74%) of respondents across all professions agreed that the CAPP should include a measure of PsA. Although responses varied widely on how PsA should be measured, a majority of the respondents reported that presence of PsA in both peripheral and axial joint assessment was important.	Epidemiologic studies have shown that, in patients with psoriatic arthritis (PsA), associated comorbidities may occur more frequently than expected. This article discusses related comorbidities in patients with PsA. Identifying these comorbidities may affect the management and treatment decisions for these patients to ensure an optimal clinical outcome. All health care providers caring for patients with PsA should be aware of the relevant comorbidities and should have an understanding of how these comorbidities affect management. The common comorbidities include cardiovascular disease, metabolic syndrome, obesity, diabetes, fatty liver disease, inflammatory bowel disease, ophthalmic disease, kidney disease, osteoporosis, depression, and anxiety. 
Hwang, Tae Hyun	Quantitative Health Sciences	28735488	27626065	24465231	23822816	27797759	26635139	24476358	29136504	28346452	27897170	Tumor heterogeneity is a major challenge when it comes to treating cancer and also complicates research aimed at determining genetic sources for tumorigenesis. Leveraging high-throughput sequencing technology has been an effective approach for advancing our understanding of genetic diseases, and this type of data can also be used to better understand and make inferences about tumor heterogeneity. Here we describe the basics of genomics data analysis, as well as analysis pipelines for investigating tumor heterogeneity with next-generation sequencing data.	Osteosarcoma is the most common primary bone cancer. It can be cured by aggressive surgery and chemotherapy, but outcomes for metastatic or chemoresistant disease remain dismal. Cancer sequencing studies have shown that the p53 pathway is dysregulated in nearly every case, often by translocation; however, no studies of osteosarcoma evolution or intratumor heterogeneity have been done to date. We studied a patient with chemoresistant, metastatic disease over the course of 3 years. We performed exome sequencing on germline DNA and DNA collected from tumor at three separate time points. We compared variant calls and variant allele frequencies between different samples. We identified subclonal mutations in several different genes in the primary tumor sample and found that one particular subclone dominated subsequent tumor samples at relapse. This clone was marked by a novel TP53-KPNA3 translocation and loss of the opposite-strand wild-type TP53 allele. Future research must focus on the functional significance of such clones and strategies to eliminate them. 	Studying biological networks, such as protein-protein interactions, is key to understanding complex biological activities. Various types of large-scale biological datasets have been collected and analyzed with high-throughput technologies, including DNA microarray, next-generation sequencing, and the two-hybrid screening system, for this purpose. In this review, we focus on network-based approaches that help in understanding biological systems and identifying biological functions. Accordingly, this paper covers two major topics in network biology: reconstruction of gene regulatory networks and network-based applications, including protein function prediction, disease gene prioritization, and network-based genome-wide association study. 	Many large-scale studies analyzed high-throughput genomic data to identify altered pathways essential to the development and progression of specific types of cancer. However, no previous study has been extended to provide a comprehensive analysis of pathways disrupted by copy number alterations across different human cancers. Towards this goal, we propose a network-based method to integrate copy number alteration data with human protein-protein interaction networks and pathway databases to identify pathways that are commonly disrupted in many different types of cancer. We applied our approach to a data set of 2,172 cancer patients across 16 different types of cancers, and discovered a set of commonly disrupted pathways, which are likely essential for tumor formation in majority of the cancers. We also identified pathways that are only disrupted in specific cancer types, providing molecular markers for different human cancers. Analysis with independent microarray gene expression datasets confirms that the commonly disrupted pathways can be used to identify patient subgroups with significantly different survival outcomes. We also provide a network view of disrupted pathways to explain how copy number alterations affect pathways that regulate cell growth, cycle, and differentiation for tumorigenesis. In this work, we demonstrated that the network-based integrative analysis can help to identify pathways disrupted by copy number alterations across 16 types of human cancers, which are not readily identifiable by conventional overrepresentation-based and other pathway-based methods. All the results and source code are available at http://compbio.cs.umn.edu/NetPathID/.	To better predict and analyze gene associations with the collection of phenotypes organized in a phenotype ontology, it is crucial to effectively model the hierarchical structure among the phenotypes in the ontology and leverage the sparse known associations with additional training information. In this paper, we first introduce Dual Label Propagation (DLP) to impose consistent associations with the entire phenotype paths in predicting phenotype-gene associations in Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO). DLP is then used as the base model in a transfer learning framework (tlDLP) to incorporate functional annotations in Gene Ontology (GO). By simultaneously reconstructing GO term-gene associations and HPO phenotype-gene associations for all the genes in a protein-protein interaction network, tlDLP benefits from the enriched training associations indirectly through relation with GO terms. In the experiments to predict the associations between human genes and phenotypes in HPO based on human protein-protein interaction network, both DLP and tlDLP improved the prediction of gene associations with phenotype paths in HPO in cross-validation and the prediction of the most recent associations added after the snapshot of the training data. Moreover, the transfer learning through GO term-gene associations significantly improved association predictions for the phenotypes with no more specific known associations by a large margin. Examples are also shown to demonstrate how phenotype paths in phenotype ontology and transfer learning with gene ontology can improve the predictions. Source code is available at http://compbio.cs.umn.edu/onto phenome . kuang@cs.umn.com. Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics online.	Identification of altered pathways that are clinically relevant across human cancers is a key challenge in cancer genomics. Precise identification and understanding of these altered pathways may provide novel insights into patient stratification, therapeutic strategies and the development of new drugs. However, a challenge remains in accurately identifying pathways altered by somatic mutations across human cancers, due to the diverse mutation spectrum. We developed an innovative approach to integrate somatic mutation data with gene networks and pathways, in order to identify pathways altered by somatic mutations across cancers. We applied our approach to The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) dataset of somatic mutations in 4790 cancer patients with 19 different types of tumors. Our analysis identified cancer-type-specific altered pathways enriched with known cancer-relevant genes and targets of currently available drugs. To investigate the clinical significance of these altered pathways, we performed consensus clustering for patient stratification using member genes in the altered pathways coupled with gene expression datasets from 4870 patients from TCGA, and multiple independent cohorts confirmed that the altered pathways could be used to stratify patients into subgroups with significantly different clinical outcomes. Of particular significance, certain patient subpopulations with poor prognosis were identified because they had specific altered pathways for which there are available targeted therapies. These findings could be used to tailor and intensify therapy in these patients, for whom current therapy is suboptimal. The code is available at: http://www.taehyunlab.org jhcheong@yuhs.ac or taehyun.hwang@utsouthwestern.edu or taehyun.cs@gmail.com Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics online.	Personal genome assembly is a critical process when studying tumor genomes and other highly divergent sequences. The accuracy of downstream analyses, such as RNA-seq and ChIP-seq, can be greatly enhanced by using personal genomic sequences rather than standard references. Unfortunately, reads sequenced from these types of samples often have a heterogeneous mix of various subpopulations with different variants, making assembly extremely difficult using existing assembly tools. To address these challenges, we developed SHEAR (Sample Heterogeneity Estimation and Assembly by Reference; http://vk.cs.umn.edu/SHEAR), a tool that predicts SVs, accounts for heterogeneous variants by estimating their representative percentages, and generates personal genomic sequences to be used for downstream analysis. By making use of structural variant detection algorithms, SHEAR offers improved performance in the form of a stronger ability to handle difficult structural variant types and better computational efficiency. We compare against the lead competing approach using a variety of simulated scenarios as well as real tumor cell line data with known heterogeneous variants. SHEAR is shown to successfully estimate heterogeneity percentages in both cases, and demonstrates an improved efficiency and better ability to handle tandem duplications. SHEAR allows for accurate and efficient SV detection and personal genomic sequence generation. It is also able to account for heterogeneous sequencing samples, such as from tumor tissue, by estimating the subpopulation percentage for each heterogeneous variant.	ARID1A, an SWI/SNF chromatin-remodeling gene, is commonly mutated in cancer and hypothesized to be tumor suppressive. In some hepatocellular carcinoma patients, ARID1A was highly expressed in primary tumors but not in metastatic lesions, suggesting that ARID1A can be lost after initiation. Mice with liver-specific homozygous or heterozygous Arid1a loss were resistant to tumor initiation while ARID1A overexpression accelerated initiation. In contrast, homozygous or heterozygous Arid1a loss in established tumors accelerated progression and metastasis. Mechanistically, gain of Arid1a function promoted initiation by increasing CYP450-mediated oxidative stress, while loss of Arid1a within tumors decreased chromatin accessibility and reduced transcription of genes associated with migration, invasion, and metastasis. In summary, ARID1A has context-dependent tumor-suppressive and oncogenic roles in cancer.	Brain tumor initiating cells (BTICs), also known as cancer stem cells, hijack high-affinity glucose uptake active normally in neurons to maintain energy demands. Here we link metabolic dysregulation in human BTICs to a nexus between MYC and de novo purine synthesis, mediating glucose-sustained anabolic metabolism. Inhibiting purine synthesis abrogated BTIC growth, self-renewal and in vivo tumor formation by depleting intracellular pools of purine nucleotides, supporting purine synthesis as a potential therapeutic point of fragility. In contrast, differentiated glioma cells were unaffected by the targeting of purine biosynthetic enzymes, suggesting selective dependence of BTICs. MYC coordinated the control of purine synthetic enzymes, supporting its role in metabolic reprogramming. Elevated expression of purine synthetic enzymes correlated with poor prognosis in glioblastoma patients. Collectively, our results suggest that stem-like glioma cells reprogram their metabolism to self-renew and fuel the tumor hierarchy, revealing potential BTIC cancer dependencies amenable to targeted therapy.	Molecularly targeted therapies for advanced prostate cancer include castration modalities that suppress ligand-dependent transcriptional activity of the androgen receptor (AR). However, persistent AR signalling undermines therapeutic efficacy and promotes progression to lethal castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC), even when patients are treated with potent second-generation AR-targeted therapies abiraterone and enzalutamide. Here we define diverse AR genomic structural rearrangements (AR-GSRs) as a class of molecular alterations occurring in one third of CRPC-stage tumours. AR-GSRs occur in the context of copy-neutral and amplified AR and display heterogeneity in breakpoint location, rearrangement class and sub-clonal enrichment in tumours within and between patients. Despite this heterogeneity, one common outcome in tumours with high sub-clonal enrichment of AR-GSRs is outlier expression of diverse AR variant species lacking the ligand-binding domain and possessing ligand-independent transcriptional activity. Collectively, these findings reveal AR-GSRs as important drivers of persistent AR signalling in CRPC.
Imrey, Peter	Quantitative Health Sciences	20862669	16753447	15286133	26378705	26378704	26378703	8610679	8586688	7880252	7932024	Frequently in clinical studies a primary outcome is formulated from a vector of binary events. Several methods exist to assess treatment effects on multiple correlated binary outcomes, including comparing groups on the occurrence of at least one among the outcomes ('collapsed composite'), on the count of outcomes observed per subject, on individual outcomes adjusting for multiplicity, or with multivariate tests postulating either common or distinct effects across outcomes. We focus on a 1-df distinct effects test in which the estimated outcome-specific treatment effects from a GEE model are simply averaged, and compare it with other methods on clinical and statistical grounds. Using a flexible method to simulate multivariate binary data, we show that the relative efficiencies of the assessed tests depend in a complex way on the magnitudes and variabilities of component incidences and treatment effects, as well as correlations among component events. While other tests are easily 'driven' by high-frequency components, the average effect GEE test is not, since it averages the log odds ratios unweighted by the component frequencies. Thus, the average effect test is relatively more powerful than other tests when lower frequency components have stronger associations with a treatment or other predictor, but less powerful when higher frequency components are more strongly associated. In studies when relative effects are at least as important as absolute effects, or when lower frequency components are clinically most important, this test may be preferred. Two clinical trials are discussed and analyzed, and recommendations for practice are made.	Diabetic bladder dysfunction is among the most common and bothersome complications of diabetes mellitus. While bladder filling and voiding problems have been reported, the precise functional changes in diabetic bladders remain unclear. We investigated time dependent changes in bladder function in streptozotocin induced diabetic rats. Cystometrograms and detrusor muscle contractility were examined in male age matched control and diabetic Sprague-Dawley rats (Harlan, Indianapolis, Indiana) 3, 6, 9, 12 and 20 weeks after diabetes induction with streptozotocin. Diabetes decreased average body weight and increased bladder weight, capacity and compliance. Peak detrusor leak pressure increased gradually from weeks 3 to 6 to 9 in diabetic rats (mean +/- SEM 47.3 +/- 2.5, 50.8 +/- 3.0 and 56.0 +/- 3.6 cm H(2)O) and in controls (36.9 +/- 1.4, 37.7 +/- 1.5 and 41.6 +/- 1.81 cm H(2)O, respectively). However, at 12 and 20 weeks diabetic rats deviated strongly from this trend with peak detrusor leak pressure decreasing vs controls (41.6 +/- 2.8 and 37.3 +/- 0.9 vs 45.2 +/- 1.7 and 49.6 +/- 1.4 cm H(2)O, respectively) and post-void resting pressures increasing from 9-week levels vs controls (interactions p &lt;0.0001). In contractility studies increased contractile force responses of diabetic animals to carbamylcholine chloride, potassium chloride, adenosine 5'-triphosphate and electric field stimulation peaked at 6 or 9 weeks but at 12 to 20 weeks they generally reverted toward those of controls (carbamylcholine chloride and electrical field stimulation interactions p = 0.0022 and 0.01, respectively). Diabetic bladders may undergo a transition from a compensated to a decompensated state and transition in the streptozotocin rat model may begin 9 to 12 weeks after induction.	Treatments to halt or reverse the progression of non-cavitated caries lesions are of increasing interest. Diagnostic technologies under development offer potential for the assessment of gradual progression and regression of such lesions. Many therapies directed at correcting demineralization-remineralization imbalance should, in principle, protect enamel similarly across lesion severities from initiation to near cavitation. If this is so, and if acceptable reproducibility and predictive validity can be demonstrated for a diagnostic of acceptable cost, then clinical trials of agents to prevent cavitation can become more efficient by the use of outcome indices that reflect, in addition to cavitation, the expansion and regression of non-cavitated lesions. However, to achieve such a benefit will require data analyses that fully exploit ordinal or continuous-scale outcome measures. We consider comparison of such measures of lesion status between treatment groups, with most attention to ordinal categorical data. Interim data from a clinical trial in Lithuanian children are used for illustration.	Randomized assignment of treatment excludes reverse causation and selection bias and, in sufficiently large studies, effectively prevents confounding. Well-implemented blinding prevents measurement bias. Studies that include these protections are called randomized, blinded clinical trials and, when conducted with sufficient numbers of patients, provide the most valid results. Although conceptually straightforward, design of clinical trials requires thoughtful trade-offs among competing approaches-all of which influence the number of patients required, enrollment time, internal and external validity, ability to evaluate interactions among treatments, and cost. 	Case-control and cohort studies are invaluable research tools and provide the strongest feasible research designs for addressing some questions. Case-control studies usually involve retrospective data collection. Cohort studies can involve retrospective, ambidirectional, or prospective data collection. Observational studies are subject to errors attributable to selection bias, confounding, measurement bias, and reverse causation-in addition to errors of chance. Confounding can be statistically controlled to the extent that potential factors are known and accurately measured, but, in practice, bias and unknown confounders usually remain additional potential sources of error, often of unknown magnitude and clinical impact. Causality-the most clinically useful relation between exposure and outcome-can rarely be definitively determined from observational studies because intentional, controlled manipulations of exposures are not involved. In this article, we review several types of observational clinical research: case series, comparative case-control and cohort studies, and hybrid designs in which case-control analyses are performed on selected members of cohorts. We also discuss the analytic issues that arise when groups to be compared in an observational study, such as patients receiving different therapies, are not comparable in other respects. 	Clinical research can be categorized by the timing of data collection: retrospective or prospective. Clinical research also can be categorized by study design. In case-control studies, investigators compare previous exposures (including genetic and other personal factors, environmental influences, and medical treatments) among groups distinguished by later disease status (broadly defined to include the development of disease or response to treatment). In cohort studies, investigators compare subsequent incidences of disease among groups distinguished by one or more exposures. Comparative clinical trials are prospective cohort studies that compare treatments assigned to patients by the researchers. Most errors in clinical research findings arise from 5 largely distinguishable classes of methodologic problems: selection bias, confounding, measurement bias, reverse causation, and excessive chance variation. 	Between February 1991 and April 1992, eight undergraduates at a US residential university and one at a nearby 2-year college contracted serogroup C meningococcal disease. A case-control investigation with 20 controls per case, oropharyngeal carriage surveys, and multilocus enzyme electrophoresis (MEE) of serogroup C isolates were used to identify factors contributing to the outbreak. All eight sterile-site isolates from cases were closely related by MEE and were similar (though not identical) to the strain associated with the 1991-1992 epidemic of meningococcal disease in eastern Canada. Disease was associated with cigarette smoking (p = 0.012), recent patronage of campus-area bars (p = 0.034), estimated amount of time spent in campus-area bars (p = 0.0003), and, especially, recent patronage of one specific bar, bar A (p = 0.0006; odds ratio = 23.1, 95% confidence interval 3.0-571.5). In carriage surveys, 1,528 throat cultures taken from (primarily student) noncases yielded only five (0.3%) strains that were identical by MEE to those from cases. Two of these were found among 22 cultures obtained from bar A employees in spring 1992. Some cases in this outbreak may have followed transmission of the epidemic strain in bar A. Campus bar environments may facilitate the spread of meningococcal disease among teenagers and young adults.	Community outbreaks of serogroup C invasive meningococcal disease are increasing in North America (L. H. Harrison, JAMA 273:419-421, 1995; L. A. Jackson, A. Schuchat, M. W. Reeves, and J. D. Wenger, JAMA 273:382-389, 1995; C. M. Whalen, J. C. Hockin, A. Ryan, and F. Ashton, JAMA 273:390-394). In a recent 15-month university outbreak, disease was linked to patronage of a specific campus-area bar, suggesting that aspects of a campus bar environment might promote meningococcal transmission (P. B. Imrey, L. A. Jackson, P. H. Ludwinski, et al., Am. J. Epidemiol., in press). To investigate this hypothesis, oropharyngeal carriage results from samples taken from 867 university health service clients and 85 campus-area bar employees during the last 3 months of the outbreak were analyzed to determine factors correlated with carriage of any strain of Neisseria meningitidis. Results were validated with data from samples from 344 health center clients and 211 campus bar employees taken 8 months after the last outbreak case. Recent alcohol consumption (adjusted prevalence odds ratio = 3.8 for &gt; 15 versus 0 drinks in last week [P = 0.0012]) and campus bar patronage (adjusted odds ratio = 1.9 for any versus no patronage in last 2 weeks [P = 0.0122]) showed separate effects in both univariate and multiple logistic regression analyses of data from the 1992 health center clients. Prevalence of meningococcal carriage among 1992 campus bar workers was 3.8 times that among health center clients; this prevalence ratio was roughly 2.5 after adjustment for alcohol consumption and bar patronage. Recent antibiotic usage was protective (prevalence odds ratio = 0.3) among health center clients and bar workers. These findings were generally supported by the validation samples. If alcohol consumption and other aspects of the campus bar environment facilitate transmission of and/or colonization by N. meningitidis, then the introduction of a highly pathogenic substrain into the campus bar environment may provide an unusual opportunity for invasive meningococcal disease within a campus community.	Guidelines are suggested for determining efficacy of products to supplement scaling and root planing in professional, non-surgical treatment of adult periodontitis. They result from an extended process including a conference on clinical trials in gingivitis and periodontitis, a subsequent workshop, and commentary from industrial, academic, professional and governmental members of the periodontal research community on two drafts. Recommendations are made in the broad areas of basic study design, subject and periodontal site selection, clinical management, choice of outcome variables, statistical summarization and analysis, and criteria for acceptance. Prominent dissenting views, with justifications for positions taken here, are also provided. Groundwork is laid for possible future guidelines addressing products for primary prevention or over-the-counter uses, or for determining superiority or equivalence of competing products. However, issues are identified which require further exploration before responsible and widely acceptable recommendations can be made in these areas. The guidelines suggested here are meant to form the basis of an evolving document rather than a static standard. It is suggested that they be reviewed frequently in the light of improvement in the technology available for periodontal research, and the emergence of products representing new approaches to periodontal therapy.	This paper presents suggested revisions to the American Dental Association's 1985 guidelines for acceptance of anti-gingivitis chemotherapeutic agents. The areas of study design, choice and quality control of clinical gingivitis measurements, statistical analysis, and minimum strength of effect, are addressed. The revisions articulate certain aspects of study design which were implicit in the 1985 guidelines, clarify language on cross-over designs and independence of studies, and recommend use of a United States population in at least one trial supporting a product. Separate recording and analysis of a product's effect on gingival bleeding is proposed, and quality control of clinical measurements receives enhanced emphasis. Modestly elaborated statistical reporting guidelines and strengthened approval criteria, based on size of estimated effect as well as statistical significance, are advocated.
Ivanov, Andrei	Inflammation and Immunity	30290240	30010460	28359759	28322932	27063635	26878213	25809162	25792565	27626042	25143399	Cell migration is a critical mechanism controlling tissue morphogenesis, epithelial wound healing and tumor metastasis. Migrating cells depend on orchestrated remodeling of the plasma membrane and the underlying actin cytoskeleton, which is regulated by the spectrin-adducin-based membrane skeleton. Expression of adducins is altered during tumorigenesis, however, their involvement in metastatic dissemination of tumor cells remains poorly characterized. This study investigated the roles of α-adducin (ADD1) and γ-adducin (ADD3) in regulating migration and invasion of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cells. ADD1 was mislocalized, whereas ADD3 was markedly downregulated in NSCLC cells with the invasive mesenchymal phenotype. CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knockout of ADD1 and ADD3 in epithelial-type NSCLC and normal bronchial epithelial cells promoted their Boyden chamber migration and Matrigel invasion. Furthermore, overexpression of ADD1, but not ADD3, in mesenchymal-type NSCLC cells decreased cell migration and invasion. ADD1-overexpressing NSCLC cells demonstrated increased adhesion to the extracellular matrix (ECM), accompanied by enhanced assembly of focal adhesions and hyperphosphorylation of Src and paxillin. The increased adhesiveness and decreased motility of ADD1-overexpressing cells were reversed by siRNA-mediated knockdown of Src. By contrast, the accelerated migration of ADD1 and ADD3-depleted NSCLC cells was ECM adhesion-independent and was driven by the upregulated expression of pro-motile cadherin-11. Overall, our findings reveal a novel function of adducins as negative regulators of NSCLC cell migration and invasion, which could be essential for limiting lung cancer progression and metastasis.	Vesicle trafficking regulates epithelial cell migration by remodeling matrix adhesions and delivering signaling molecules to the migrating leading edge. Membrane fusion, which is driven by soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor associated receptor (SNARE) proteins, is an essential step of vesicle trafficking. Mammalian SNAREs represent a large group of proteins, but few have been implicated in the regulation of cell migration. Ykt6 is a unique SNARE existing in equilibrium between active membrane-bound and inactive cytoplasmic pools, and mediating vesicle trafficking between different intracellular compartments. The biological functions of this protein remain poorly understood. In the present study, we found that Ykt6 acts as a negative regulator of migration and invasion of human prostate epithelial cells. Furthermore, Ykt6 regulates the integrity of epithelial adherens and tight junctions. The observed anti-migratory activity of Ykt6 is mediated by a unique mechanism involving the expressional upregulation of microRNA 145, which selectively decreases the cellular level of Junctional Adhesion Molecule (JAM) A. This decreased JAM-A expression limits the activity of Rap1 and Rac1 small GTPases, thereby attenuating cell spreading and motility. The described novel functions of Ykt6 could be essential for the regulation of epithelial barriers, epithelial repair, and metastatic dissemination of cancer cells.	A soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor-attachment protein alpha (αSNAP) is a multifunctional scaffolding protein that regulates intracellular vesicle trafficking and signaling. In cultured intestinal epithelial cells, αSNAP has been shown to be essential for cell survival, motility, and adhesion; however, its physiologic functions in the intestinal mucosa remain unknown. In the present study, we used a mouse with a spontaneous hydrocephalus with hop gait (hyh) mutation of αSNAP to examine the roles of this trafficking protein in regulating intestinal epithelial homeostasis in vivo. Homozygous hyh mice demonstrated decreased expression of αSNAP protein in the intestinal epithelium, but did not display gross abnormalities of epithelial architecture in the colon and ileum. Such αSNAP depletion attenuated differentiation of small intestinal epithelial enteroids ex vivo. Furthermore, αSNAP-deficient mutant animals displayed reduced formation of lysozyme granules in small intestinal crypts and decreased expression of lysozyme and defensins in the intestinal mucosa, which is indicative of defects in Paneth cell differentiation. By contrast, development of Goblet cells, enteroendocrine cells, and assembly of enterocyte apical junctions was not altered in hyh mutant mice. Our data revealed a novel role of αSNAP in the intestinal Paneth cell differentiation in vivo.	The intestinal epithelium forms a key protective barrier that separates internal organs from the harmful environment of the gut lumen. Increased permeability of the gut barrier is a common manifestation of different inflammatory disorders contributing to the severity of disease. Barrier permeability is controlled by epithelial adherens junctions and tight junctions. Junctional assembly and integrity depend on fundamental homeostatic processes such as cell differentiation, rearrangements of the cytoskeleton, and vesicle trafficking. Alterations of intestinal epithelial homeostasis during mucosal inflammation may impair structure and remodeling of apical junctions, resulting in increased permeability of the gut barrier. In this review, we summarize recent advances in our understanding of how altered epithelial homeostasis affects the structure and function of adherens junctions and tight junctions in the inflamed gut. Specifically, we focus on the transcription reprogramming of the cell, alterations in the actin cytoskeleton, and junctional endocytosis and exocytosis. We pay special attention to knockout mouse model studies and discuss the relevance of these mechanisms to human gastrointestinal disorders.	The actin cytoskeleton is a critical regulator of intestinal mucosal barrier permeability, and the integrity of epithelial adherens junctions (AJ) and tight junctions (TJ). Non muscle myosin II (NM II) is a key cytoskeletal motor that controls actin filament architecture and dynamics. While NM II has been implicated in the regulation of epithelial junctions in vitro, little is known about its roles in the intestinal mucosa in vivo. In this study, we generated a mouse model with an intestinal epithelial-specific knockout of NM IIA heavy chain (NM IIA cKO) and examined the structure and function of normal gut barrier, and the development of experimental colitis in these animals. Unchallenged NM IIA cKO mice showed increased intestinal permeability and altered expression/localization of several AJ/TJ proteins. They did not develop spontaneous colitis, but demonstrated signs of a low-scale mucosal inflammation manifested by prolapses, lymphoid aggregates, increased cytokine expression, and neutrophil infiltration in the gut. NM IIA cKO animals were characterized by a more severe disruption of the gut barrier and exaggerated mucosal injury during experimentally-induced colitis. Our study provides the first evidence that NM IIA plays important roles in establishing normal intestinal barrier, and protection from mucosal inflammation in vivo. 	The actin cytoskeleton is a crucial regulator of the intestinal mucosal barrier, controlling the assembly and function of epithelial adherens and tight junctions (AJs and TJs). Junction-associated actin filaments are dynamic structures that undergo constant turnover. Members of the actin-depolymerizing factor (ADF) and cofilin protein family play key roles in actin dynamics by mediating filament severing and polymerization. We examined the roles of ADF and cofilin-1 in regulating the structure and functions of AJs and TJs in the intestinal epithelium. Knockdown of either ADF or cofilin-1 by RNA interference increased the paracellular permeability of human colonic epithelial cell monolayers to small ions. Additionally, cofilin-1, but not ADF, depletion increased epithelial permeability to large molecules. Loss of either ADF or cofilin-1 did not affect the steady-state morphology of AJs and TJs but attenuated de novo junctional assembly. The observed defects in AJ and TJ formation were accompanied by delayed assembly of the perijunctional filamentous actin belt. A total loss of ADF expression in mice did not result in a defective mucosal barrier or in spontaneous gut inflammation. However, ADF-null mice demonstrated increased intestinal permeability and exaggerated inflammation during dextran sodium sulfate-induced colitis. Our findings demonstrate novel roles for ADF and cofilin-1 in regulating the remodeling and permeability of epithelial junctions, as well as the role of ADF in limiting the severity of intestinal inflammation. 	Tight junctions (TJ) and adherens junctions (AJ) are key morphological features of differentiated epithelial cells that regulate the integrity and permeability of tissue barriers. Structure and remodeling of epithelial junctions depends on their association with the underlying actomyosin cytoskeleton. Anillin is a unique scaffolding protein interacting with different cytoskeletal components, including actin filaments and myosin motors. Its role in the regulation of mammalian epithelial junctions remains unexplored. Downregulation of anillin expression in human prostate, colonic, and lung epithelial cells triggered AJ and TJ disassembly without altering the expression of junctional proteins. This junctional disassembly was accompanied by dramatic disorganization of the perijunctional actomyosin belt; while the general architecture of the actin cytoskeleton, and activation status of non-muscle myosin II, remained unchanged. Furthermore, loss of anillin disrupted the adducin-spectrin membrane skeleton at the areas of cell-cell contact, selectively decreased γ-adducin expression, and induced cytoplasmic aggregation of αII-spectrin. Anillin knockdown activated c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), and JNK inhibition restored AJ and TJ integrity and cytoskeletal organization in anillin-depleted cells. These findings suggest a novel role for anillin in regulating intercellular adhesion in model human epithelia by mechanisms involving the suppression of JNK activity and controlling the assembly of the perijunctional cytoskeleton. 	Adherens junctions (AJs) and tight junctions (TJs) are crucial regulators of the integrity and restitution of the intestinal epithelial barrier. The structure and function of epithelial junctions depend on their association with the cortical actin cytoskeleton that, in polarized epithelial cells, is represented by a prominent perijunctional actomyosin belt. The assembly and stability of the perijunctional cytoskeleton is controlled by constant turnover (disassembly and reassembly) of actin filaments. Actin-interacting protein (Aip) 1 is an emerging regulator of the actin cytoskeleton, playing a critical role in filament disassembly. In this study, we examined the roles of Aip1 in regulating the structure and remodeling of AJs and TJs in human intestinal epithelium. Aip1 was enriched at apical junctions in polarized human intestinal epithelial cells and normal mouse colonic mucosa. Knockdown of Aip1 by RNA interference increased the paracellular permeability of epithelial cell monolayers, decreased recruitment of AJ/TJ proteins to steady-state intercellular contacts, and attenuated junctional reassembly in a calcium-switch model. The observed defects of AJ/TJ structure and functions were accompanied by abnormal organization and dynamics of the perijunctional F-actin cytoskeleton. Moreover, loss of Aip1 impaired the apico-basal polarity of intestinal epithelial cell monolayers and inhibited formation of polarized epithelial cysts in 3-D Matrigel. Our findings demonstrate a previously unanticipated role of Aip1 in regulating the structure and remodeling of intestinal epithelial junctions and early steps of epithelial morphogenesis.	This Editorial is written to introduce Tissue Barriers, a new Taylor &amp; Francis journal, to the readers of Temperature. It describes the role of temperature in the regulation of different tissue barriers under normal and disease conditions. It also highlights the most interesting articles published in the first volume of Tissue Barriers. 	Transdifferentiation of epithelial cells into mesenchymal cells and myofibroblasts plays an important role in tumor progression and tissue fibrosis. Such epithelial plasticity is accompanied by dramatic reorganizations of the actin cytoskeleton, although mechanisms underlying cytoskeletal effects on epithelial transdifferentiation remain poorly understood. In the present study, we observed that selective siRNA-mediated knockdown of γ-cytoplasmic actin (γ-CYA), but not β-cytoplasmic actin, induced epithelial-to-myofibroblast transition (EMyT) of different epithelial cells. The EMyT manifested by increased expression of α-smooth muscle actin and other contractile proteins, along with inhibition of genes responsible for cell proliferation. Induction of EMyT in γ-CYA-depleted cells depended on activation of serum response factor and its cofactors, myocardial-related transcriptional factors A and B. Loss of γ-CYA stimulated formin-mediated actin polymerization and activation of Rho GTPase, which appear to be essential for EMyT induction. Our findings demonstrate a previously unanticipated, unique role of γ-CYA in regulating epithelial phenotype and suppression of EMyT that may be essential for cell differentiation and tissue fibrosis. 
Jaroslaw Maciejewski	Translational Hematology and Oncology Research	30891747	30898763	30709865	30675378	30655603	29795413	29416752	29339439	29217782	28633612	Compound heterozygous germline mutations in CTC1 gene have been found in patients with atypical dyskeratosis congenita (DC), whereas heterozygous carriers are unaffected. Through screening of a large cohort of adult patients with acquired bone marrow failure syndromes, in addition to a DC case, we have also found extremely rare or novel heterozygous deleterious germline variants of CTC1 in patients with aplastic anaemia (AA; n = 5), paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria (PNH; n = 3) and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS; n = 2). A compound heterozygous case of AA showed clonal evolution. Our results suggest that some of the inherited CTC1 variants may represent predisposition factors for acquired bone marrow failure.	T large granular lymphocyte leukemia (T-LGLL) is a clonal lymphoproliferative disorder that can arise in the context of pathologic or physiologic cytotoxic T-cell (CTL) responses. STAT3 mutations are often absent in typical T-LGLL, suggesting that in a significant fraction of patients, antigen-driven expansion alone can maintain LGL clone persistence. We set out to determine the relationship between activating STAT3 hits and CTL clonal selection at presentation and in response to therapy. Thus, a group of patients with T-LGLL were serially subjected to deep next-generation sequencing (NGS) of the T-cell receptor (TCR) Vβ complementarity-determining region 3 (CDR3) and STAT3 to recapitulate clonal hierarchy and dynamics. The results of this complex analysis demonstrate that STAT3 mutations produce either a sweeping or linear subclone within a monoclonal CTL population either early or during the course of disease. Therapy can extinguish a LGL clone, silence it, or adapt mechanisms to escape elimination. LGL clones can persist on elimination of STAT3 subclones, and alternate STAT3-negative CTL clones can replace therapy-sensitive CTL clones. LGL clones can evolve and are fueled by a nonextinguished antigenic drive. STAT3 mutations can accelerate this process or render CTL clones semiautonomous and not reliant on physiologic stimulation.	Somatic TET2 mutations (TET2<sup>MT</sup>) are frequent in myeloid neoplasia (MN), particularly chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML). TET2<sup>MT</sup> includes mostly loss-of-function/hypomorphic hits. Impaired TET2 activity skews differentiation of hematopoietic stem cells toward proliferating myeloid precursors. This study was prompted by the observation of frequent biallelic TET2 gene inactivations (biTET2<sup> i </sup> ) in CMML. We speculated that biTET2<sup> i </sup> might be associated with distinct clinicohematological features. We analyzed TET2<sup>MT</sup> in 1045 patients with MN. Of 82 biTET2<sup> i </sup> cases, 66 were biTET2<sup>MT</sup>, 13 were hemizygous TET2<sup>MT</sup>, and 3 were homozygous TET2<sup>MT</sup> (uniparental disomy); the remaining patients (denoted biTET2<sup> - </sup> hereafter) were either monoallelic TET2<sup>MT</sup> (n = 96) or wild-type TET2 (n = 823). Truncation mutations were found in 83% of biTET2<sup> i </sup> vs 65% of biTET2<sup> - </sup> cases (P = .02). TET2 hits were founder lesions in 72% of biTET2<sup> i </sup> vs 38% of biTET2<sup> - </sup> cases (P &lt; .0001). In biTET2<sup> i </sup> , significantly concurrent hits included SRSF2<sup>MT</sup> (33%; P &lt; .0001) and KRAS/NRAS<sup>MT</sup> (16%; P = .03) as compared with biTET2<sup> - </sup> When the first TET2 hit was ancestral in biTET2<sup> i </sup> , the most common subsequent hits affected a second TET2<sup>MT</sup>, followed by SRSF2<sup>MT</sup>, ASXL1<sup>MT</sup>, RAS<sup>MT</sup>, and DNMT3A<sup>MT</sup>BiTET2<sup> i </sup> patients without any monocytosis showed an absence of SRSF2<sup>MT</sup>BiTET2<sup> i </sup> patients were older and had monocytosis, CMML, normal karyotypes, and lower-risk disease compared with biTET2<sup> - </sup> patients. Hence, while a second TET2 hit occurred frequently, biTET2<sup> i </sup> did not portend faster progression but rather determined monocytic differentiation, consistent with its prevalence in CMML. Additionally, biTET2<sup> i </sup> showed lower odds of cytopenias and marrow blasts (≥5%) and higher odds of myeloid dysplasia and marrow hypercellularity. Thus, biTET2<sup> i </sup> might represent an auxiliary assessment tool in MN.	A high-throughput anti-aging drug screen was developed that simultaneously measures senescence-associated β-galactosidase activity and proliferation. Applied to replicatively pre-aged fibroblasts, this screen yielded violuric acid (VA) and 1-naphthoquinone-2-monoxime (N2N1) as its top two hits. These lead compounds extended the replicative life spans of normal and progeroid human cells in a dose-dependent manner and also extended the chronological life spans of mice and C. elegans. They are further shown here to function as redox catalysts in oxidations of NAD(P)H. They thus slow age-related declines in NAD(P)<sup>+</sup>/NAD(P)H ratios. VA participates in non-enzymatic electron transfers from NAD(P)H to oxidized glutathione or peroxides. N2N1 transfers electrons from NAD(P)H to cytochrome c or CoQ10 via NAD(P)H dehydrogenase (quinone) 1 (NQO1). Our results indicate that pharmacologic manipulation of NQO1 activity via redox catalysts may reveal mechanisms of senescence and aging.	Next generation sequencing (NGS) has become an important tool to inform disease risk for myeloid malignancies, however data remains conflicting regarding the significance of individual mutations. We performed targeted NGS on 112 patients with AML, and 80 with MDS, who underwent allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation. The most common mutations in AML were TET2 (14.7%), FLT3 (12.9%), DNMT3A (12.1%), and RUNX1 (7.8%). Complex cytogenetics (HR 2.82, P = .017) and disease status (&lt;CR) (HR 2.58, P &lt; .001) was significantly associated with worse RFS. No individual mutation, nor variant allelic frequency (VAF), was found to be prognostic, except mutations in the RNA-splicing pathway, (HR 2.09, P = .023). Within the MDS cohort, most common mutations were ASXL1 (12.5%), SRSF2 (12%), TET2 (8.8%), and TP53 (8.8%). Complex cytogenetics (HR 5.01, P &lt; .001), and presence of U2AF1 (HR 3.60, P = .019), was associated with worse RFS. Analysis of VAF found that TP53 and EZH2 mutations with allelic frequencies of &gt;33% were associated with poor RFS (HR 3.57, P = .017; and HR 6.57, P = .003; respectively). Molecular profiling is increasingly important in the care of patients with AML and MDS. Further studies are needed to understand the molecular complexities, including the significance of clonal burden, to better inform care decisions.	Somatic mutations in TET2 are common in myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), myeloproliferative, and overlap syndromes. TET2 mutant (TET2<sup>MT</sup>) clones are also found in asymptomatic elderly individuals, a condition referred to as clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential (CHIP). In various entities of TET2<sup>MT</sup> neoplasia, we examined the phenotype in relation to the strata of TET2 hits within the clonal hierarchy. Using deep sequencing, 1781 mutations were found in 1205 of 4930 patients; 40% of mutant cases were biallelic. Hierarchical analysis revealed that of TET2<sup>MT</sup> cases &gt;40% were ancestral, e.g., representing 8% of MDS. Higher (earlier) TET2 lesion rank within the clonal hierarchy (greater clonal burden) was associated with impaired survival. Moreover, MDS driven by ancestral TET2<sup>MT</sup> is likely derived from TET2<sup>MT</sup> CHIP with a penetrance of ~1%. Following ancestral TET2 mutations, individual disease course is determined by secondary hits. Using multidimensional analyses, we demonstrate how hits following the TET2 founder defect induces phenotypic shifts toward dysplasia, myeloproliferation, or progression to AML. In summary, TET2<sup>MT</sup> CHIP-derived MDS is a subclass of MDS that is distinct from de novo disease.	Using next generation sequencing we have systematically analyzed a large cohort of 489 patients with bone marrow failure (BMF), including myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), acute myeloid leukemia (AML), aplastic anemia (AA), and related conditions for the presence of germline (GL) alterations in Fanconi Anemia (FA) and telomerase genes. We have detected an increased frequency of heterozygous FA gene mutations in MDS and to lesser degree in AML suggesting that the presence of one normal allele may not be completely protective and indeed heterozygous FA lesions may have a long latency period before hematologic manifestation. In contrast, GL telomerase gene mutations were not associated with increased disease risk. When compared to large control cohorts, we have not detected an increased frequency of damaging variants among telomerase complex genes, including those previously believed to be involved in the pathogenesis of AA. Our results may suggest that while low penetrance and delayed disease onset can confound identification of genetic predisposition factors, GL FA alterations can be also associated with MDS.	Purpose: Somatic mutations in IDH1/2 occur in approximately 20% of patients with myeloid neoplasms, including acute myeloid leukemia (AML). IDH1/2<sup>MUT</sup> enzymes produce D-2-hydroxyglutarate (D2HG), which associates with increased DNA damage and improved responses to chemo/radiotherapy and PARP inhibitors in solid tumor cells. Whether this also holds true for IDH1/2<sup>MUT</sup> AML is not known.Experimental Design: Well-characterized primary IDH1<sup>MUT</sup>, IDH2<sup>MUT</sup>, and IDH1/2<sup>WT</sup> AML cells were analyzed for DNA damage and responses to daunorubicin, ionizing radiation, and PARP inhibitors.Results:IDH1/2<sup>MUT</sup> caused increased DNA damage and sensitization to daunorubicin, irradiation, and the PARP inhibitors olaparib and talazoparib in AML cells. IDH1/2<sup>MUT</sup> inhibitors protected against these treatments. Combined treatment with a PARP inhibitor and daunorubicin had an additive effect on the killing of IDH1/2<sup>MUT</sup> AML cells. We provide evidence that the therapy sensitivity of IDH1/2<sup>MUT</sup> cells was caused by D2HG-mediated downregulation of expression of the DNA damage response gene ATM and not by altered redox responses due to metabolic alterations in IDH1/2<sup>MUT</sup> cells.Conclusions:IDH1/2<sup>MUT</sup> AML cells are sensitive to PARP inhibitors as monotherapy but especially when combined with a DNA-damaging agent, such as daunorubicin, whereas concomitant administration of IDH1/2<sup>MUT</sup> inhibitors during cytotoxic therapy decrease the efficacy of both agents in IDH1/2<sup>MUT</sup> AML. These results advocate in favor of clinical trials of PARP inhibitors either or not in combination with daunorubicin in IDH1/2<sup>MUT</sup> AML. Clin Cancer Res; 24(7); 1705-15. ©2018 AACR.	Pure red cell aplasia is an orphan disease, and as such lacks rationally established standard therapies. Most cases are idiopathic; a subset is antibody-mediated. There is overlap between idiopathic cases and those with T-cell large granular lymphocytic leukemia, hypogammaglobulinemia, and low-grade lymphomas. In each of the aforementioned, the pathogenetic mechanisms may involve autoreactive cytotoxic responses. We selected 62 uniformly diagnosed pure red cell aplasia patients and analyzed their pathophysiologic features and responsiveness to rationally applied first-line and salvage therapies in order to propose diagnostic and therapeutic algorithms that may be helpful in guiding the management of prospective patients, 52% of whom were idiopathic, while the others involved large granular lymphocytic leukemia, thymoma, and B-cell dyscrasia. T-cell-mediated responses ranged between a continuum from polyclonal to monoclonal (as seen in large granular lymphocytic leukemia). During a median observation period of 40 months, patients received a median of two different therapies to achieve remission. Frequently used therapy included calcineurin-inhibitors with a steroid taper yielding a first-line overall response rate of 76% (53/70). Oral cyclophosphamide showed activity, albeit lower than that produced by cyclosporine. Intravenous immunoglobulins were effective both in parvovirus patients and in hypogammaglobulinemia cases. In salvage settings, alemtuzumab is active, particularly in large granular lymphocytic leukemia-associated cases. Other potentially useful salvage options include rituximab, anti-thymocyte globulin and bortezomib. The workup of acquired pure red cell aplasia should include investigations of common pathological associations. Most effective therapies are directed against T-cell-mediated immunity, and therapeutic choices need to account for associated conditions that may help in choosing alternative salvage agents, such as intravenous immunoglobulin, alemtuzumab and bortezomib.	Large granular lymphocytic leukemia (LGLL) represents a clonal/oligoclonal lymphoproliferation of cytotoxic T and natural killer cells often associated with STAT3 mutations. When symptomatic, due to mostly anemia and neutropenia, therapy choices are often empirically-based, because only few clinical trials and systematic studies have been performed. Incorporating new molecular and flow cytometry parameters, we identified 204 patients fulfilling uniform criteria for LGLL diagnoses and analyzed clinical course with median follow-up of 36 months, including responses to treatments. While selection of initial treatment was dictated by clinical features, the initial responses, as well as overall responses to methotrexate (MTX), cyclosporine (CsA), and cyclophosphamide (CTX), were similar at 40-50% across drugs. Sequential use of these drugs resulted in responses in most cases: only 10-20% required salvage therapies such as ATG, Campath, tofacitinib, splenectomy or abatacept. MTX yielded the most durable responses. STAT3-mutated patients required therapy more frequently and had better overall survival.
Jensen, Jan	Biomedical Engineering	25576928	28247862	24014421	23370147	22461559	18186922	29325753	28892734	28528561	28096308	Wnt signaling is a well conserved pathway critical for growth, patterning and differentiation of multiple tissues and organs. Previous studies on Wnt signaling in the pancreas have been based predominantly on downstream pathway effector genes such as β-catenin. We here provide evidence that the canonical-pathway member Wnt7b is a physiological regulator of pancreatic progenitor cell growth. Genetic deletion of Wnt7b in the developing pancreas leads to pancreatic hypoplasia due to reduced proliferation of pancreatic progenitor cells during the phase of pancreas development marked by rapid progenitor cell growth. While the differentiation potential of pancreatic progenitor cells is unaffected by Wnt7b deletion, through a gain-of-function analysis, we find that early pancreatic progenitor cells are highly sensitive to Wnt7b expression, but later lose such competence. By modulating the level and the temporal windows of Wnt7b expression we demonstrate a significant impact on organ growth and morphogenesis particularly during the early branching stages of the organ, which negatively affects generation of the pro-endocrine (Ngn3(+)/Nkx6.1(+)), and pro-acinar (Ptf1A(+)) fields. Consequently, Wnt7b gain-of-function results in failed morphogenesis and almost complete abrogation of the differentiation of endocrine and acinar cells, leading to cystic epithelial metaplasia expressing ductal markers including Sox9, Hnf6 and Hnf1β. While Wnt7b is expressed exclusively in the developing pancreatic epithelium, adjacent mesenchymal cells in the organ display a direct trophic response to elevated Wnt7b and increase expression of Lef1, cFos and desmin. Of note, in contrast to the pancreatic epithelium, the pancreatic mesenchyme remains competent to respond to Wnt7b ligand, at later stages in development. We conclude that Wnt7b helps coordinate pancreatic development through autocrine, as well as paracrine mechanisms, and as such represents a novel bi-modal morphogen ligand. 	The genetic specification of the compartmentalized pancreatic acinar/centroacinar unit is poorly understood. Growth factor independence-1 (Gfi1) is a zinc finger transcriptional repressor that regulates hematopoietic stem cell maintenance, pre-T-cell differentiation, formation of granulocytes, inner ear hair cells, and the development of secretory cell types in the intestine. As GFI1/Gfi1 is expressed in human and rodent pancreas, we characterized the potential function of Gfi1 in mouse pancreatic development. Gfi1 knockout mice were analyzed at histological and molecular levels, including qRT-PCR, in situ hybridization, immunohistochemistry, and electron microscopy. Loss of Gfi1 impacted formation and structure of the pancreatic acinar/centroacinar unit. Histologic and ultrastructural analysis of Gfi1-null pancreas revealed specific defects at the level of pancreatic acinar cells as well as the centroacinar cells (CACs) in Gfi1<sup>-/-</sup> mice when compared with wild-type littermates. Pancreatic endocrine differentiation, islet architecture, and function were unaffected. Organ domain patterning and the formation of ductal cells occurred normally during the murine secondary transition (E13.5-E14.5) in the Gfi1<sup>-/-</sup> pancreas. However, at later gestational time points (E18.5), expression of cellular markers for CACs was substantially reduced in Gfi1<sup>-/-</sup> mice, corroborated by electron microscopy imaging of the acinar/centroacinar unit. The reduction in CACs was correlated with an exocrine organ defect. Postnatally, Gfi1 deficiency resulted in severe pancreatic acinar dysplasia, including loss of granulation, autolytic vacuolation, and a proliferative and apoptotic response. Gfi1 plays an important role in regulating the development of pancreatic CACs and the function of pancreatic acinar cells.	Notch signaling is an evolutionarily conserved mechanism adapted to control binary fate decisions. The first evidence of Notch in pancreatic development focused on its critical role in controlling endocrine fate decisions. Since then, we have come to understand that this signaling system operates iteratively in the pancreas, and is not limited to the control of endocrine fate decision. Notch appears to play a role in early organ development, then during organ domain patterning, and only during a final refinement process, in the control of terminal cell fates. In so doing, Notch receptors and their ligands are under the influence of a wealth of genetic components that together help orchestrate the building of a complex, glandular organ.	Ngn3 is recognized as a regulator of pancreatic endocrine formation, and Notch signaling as an important negative regulator Ngn3 gene expression. By conditionally controlling expression of Ngn3 in the pancreas, we find that these two signaling components are dynamically linked. This connection involves transcriptional repression as previously shown, but also incorporates a novel post-translational mechanism. In addition to its ability to promote endocrine fate, we provide evidence of a competing ability of Ngn3 in the patterning of multipotent progenitor cells in turn controlling the formation of ducts. On one hand, Ngn3 cell-intrinsically activates endocrine target genes; on the other, Ngn3 cell-extrinsically promotes lateral signaling via the Dll1&gt;Notch&gt;Hes1 pathway which substantially limits its ability to sustain endocrine formation. Prior to endocrine commitment, the Ngn3-mediated activation of the Notch&gt;Hes1 pathway impacts formation of the trunk domain in the pancreas causing multipotent progenitors to lose acinar, while gaining endocrine and ductal, competence. The subsequent selection of fate from such bipotential progenitors is then governed by lateral inhibition, where Notch&gt;Hes1-mediated Ngn3 protein destabilization serves to limit endocrine differentiation by reducing cellular levels of Ngn3. This system thus allows for rapid dynamic changes between opposing bHLH proteins in cells approaching a terminal differentiation event. Inhibition of Notch signaling leads to Ngn3 protein stabilization in the normal mouse pancreas explants. We conclude that the mutually exclusive expression pattern of Ngn3/Hes1 proteins in the mammalian pancreas is partially controlled through Notch-mediated post-translational regulation and we demonstrate that the formation of insulin-producing beta-cells can be significantly enhanced upon induction of a pro-endocrine drive combined with the inhibition of Notch processing.	Early pancreatic morphogenesis is characterized by the transformation of an uncommitted pool of pancreatic progenitor cells into a branched pancreatic epithelium that consists of 'tip' and 'trunk' domains. These domains have distinct molecular signatures and differentiate into distinct pancreatic cell lineages. Cells at the branched tips of the epithelium develop into acinar cells, whereas cells in the trunk subcompartment differentiate into endocrine and duct cells. Recent genetic analyses have highlighted the role of key transcriptional regulators in the specification of these subcompartments. Here, we analyzed in mice the role of Notch signaling in the patterning of multipotent pancreatic progenitor cells through mosaic overexpression of a Notch signaling antagonist, dominant-negative mastermind-like 1, resulting in a mixture of wild-type and Notch-suppressed pancreatic progenitor cells. We find that attenuation of Notch signaling has pronounced patterning effects on multipotent pancreatic progenitor cells prior to terminal differentiation. Relative to the wild-type cells, the Notch-suppressed cells lose trunk marker genes and gain expression of tip marker genes. The Notch-suppressed cells subsequently differentiate into acinar cells, whereas duct and endocrine populations are formed predominantly from the wild-type cells. Mechanistically, these observations could be explained by a requirement of Notch for the expression of the trunk determination gene Nkx6.1. This was supported by the finding of direct binding of RBP-jκ to the Nkx6.1 proximal promoter.	Interaction with the surrounding mesenchyme is necessary for development of endodermal organs, and Fibroblast growth factors have recently emerged as mesenchymal-expressed morphogens that direct endodermal morphogenesis. The fibroblast growth factor 10 (Fgf10) null mouse is characterized by the absence of lung bud development. Previous studies have shown that this requirement for Fgf10 is due in part to its role as a chemotactic factor during branching morphogenesis. In other endodermal organs Fgf10 also plays a role in regulating differentiation. Through gain-of-function analysis, we here find that FGF10 inhibits differentiation of the lung epithelium and promotes distalization of the embryonic lung. Ectopic expression of FGF10 in the lung epithelium caused impaired lung development and perinatal lethality in a transgenic mouse model. Lung lobes were enlarged due to increased interlobular distance and hyperplasia of the airway epithelium. Differentiation of bronchial and alveolar cell lineages was inhibited. The transgenic epithelium consisted predominantly of proliferating progenitor-like cells expressing Pro-surfactant protein C, TTF1, PEA3 and Clusterin similarly to immature distal tip cells. Strikingly, goblet cells developed within this arrested epithelium leading to goblet cell hyperplasia. We conclude that FGF10 inhibits terminal differentiation in the embryonic lung and maintains the distal epithelium, and that excessive levels of FGF10 leads to metaplastic differentiation of goblet cells similar to that seen in chronic inflammatory diseases.	Animal models of serious infection suggest that 24 h of induced hypothermia improves circulatory and respiratory function and reduces mortality. We tested the hypothesis that a reduction of core temperature to 32-34°C attenuates organ dysfunction and reduces mortality in ventilator-dependent patients with septic shock. In this randomised, controlled, open-label trial, we recruited patients from ten intensive care units (ICUs) in three countries in Europe and North America. Inclusion criteria for patients with severe sepsis or septic shock were a mean arterial pressure of less than 70 mm Hg, mechanical ventilation in an ICU, age at least 50 years, predicted length of stay in the ICU at least 24 h, and recruitment into the study within 6 h of fulfilling inclusion criteria. Exclusion criteria were uncontrolled bleeding, clinically important bleeding disorder, recent open surgery, pregnancy or breastfeeding, or involuntary psychiatric admission. We randomly allocated patients 1:1 (with variable block sizes ranging from four to eight; stratified by predictors of mortality, age, Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II score, and study site) to routine thermal management or 24 h of induced hypothermia (target 32-34°C) followed by 48 h of normothermia (36-38°C). The primary endpoint was 30 day all-cause mortality in the modified intention-to-treat population (all randomly allocated patients except those for whom consent was withdrawn or who were discovered to meet an exclusion criterion after randomisation but before receiving the trial intervention). Patients and health-care professionals giving the intervention were not masked to treatment allocation, but assessors of the primary outcome were. This trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT01455116. Between Nov 1, 2011, and Nov 4, 2016, we screened 5695 patients. After recruitment of 436 of the planned 560 participants, the trial was terminated for futility (220 [50%] randomly allocated to hypothermia and 216 [50%] to routine thermal management). In the hypothermia group, 96 (44·2%) of 217 died within 30 days versus 77 (35·8%) of 215 in the routine thermal management group (difference 8·4% [95% CI -0·8 to 17·6]; relative risk 1·2 [1·0-1·6]; p=0·07]). Among patients with septic shock and ventilator-dependent respiratory failure, induced hypothermia does not reduce mortality. Induced hypothermia should not be used in patients with septic shock. Trygfonden, Lundbeckfonden, and the Danish National Research Foundation.	Little is known about the acute effects of antidepressant treatments on brain glutamate and gamma-amino-butyric acid (GABA) levels, and their association with clinical response. Using proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (<sup>1</sup>H-MRS) we examined longitudinally the effects of citalopram on glutamine/glutamate ratios and GABA levels in the pregenual anterior cingulate cortex (pgACC) of individuals with major depressive disorder (MDD). We acquired <sup>1</sup>H-MRS scans at baseline and at days 3, 7, and 42 of citalopram treatment in nineteen unmedicated individuals with MDD. Ten age- and sex-matched non-depressed comparison individuals were scanned once. The association between 1) baseline metabolites and 2) change in metabolites from baseline to each time point and clinical response (change in Montgomery-Åsberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) score from baseline to day 42) was assessed by longitudinal regression analysis using generalized estimating equations. Contrary to our hypotheses, no significant associations emerged between glutamate metabolites and clinical response; however, greater increases (or smaller decreases) in pgACC GABA levels from baseline to days 3 and 7 of citalopram treatment were significantly associated with clinical response. These findings suggest that an acute change in GABA levels in pgACC predicts, and possibly mediates, later clinical response to citalopram treatment in individuals with MDD.	Vasodilatory shock that does not respond to high-dose vasopressors is associated with high mortality. We investigated the effectiveness of angiotensin II for the treatment of patients with this condition. We randomly assigned patients with vasodilatory shock who were receiving more than 0.2 μg of norepinephrine per kilogram of body weight per minute or the equivalent dose of another vasopressor to receive infusions of either angiotensin II or placebo. The primary end point was a response with respect to mean arterial pressure at hour 3 after the start of infusion, with response defined as an increase from baseline of at least 10 mm Hg or an increase to at least 75 mm Hg, without an increase in the dose of background vasopressors. A total of 344 patients were assigned to one of the two regimens; 321 received a study intervention (163 received angiotensin II, and 158 received placebo) and were included in the analysis. The primary end point was reached by more patients in the angiotensin II group (114 of 163 patients, 69.9%) than in the placebo group (37 of 158 patients, 23.4%) (odds ratio, 7.95; 95% confidence interval [CI], 4.76 to 13.3; P&lt;0.001). At 48 hours, the mean improvement in the cardiovascular Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score (scores range from 0 to 4, with higher scores indicating more severe dysfunction) was greater in the angiotensin II group than in the placebo group (-1.75 vs. -1.28, P=0.01). Serious adverse events were reported in 60.7% of the patients in the angiotensin II group and in 67.1% in the placebo group. Death by day 28 occurred in 75 of 163 patients (46%) in the angiotensin II group and in 85 of 158 patients (54%) in the placebo group (hazard ratio, 0.78; 95% CI, 0.57 to 1.07; P=0.12). Angiotensin II effectively increased blood pressure in patients with vasodilatory shock that did not respond to high doses of conventional vasopressors. (Funded by La Jolla Pharmaceutical Company; ATHOS-3 ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT02338843 .).	(Re)Building a Kidney is a National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases-led consortium to optimize approaches for the isolation, expansion, and differentiation of appropriate kidney cell types and the integration of these cells into complex structures that replicate human kidney function. The ultimate goals of the consortium are two-fold: to develop and implement strategies for in vitro engineering of replacement kidney tissue, and to devise strategies to stimulate regeneration of nephrons in situ to restore failing kidney function. Projects within the consortium will answer fundamental questions regarding human gene expression in the developing kidney, essential signaling crosstalk between distinct cell types of the developing kidney, how to derive the many cell types of the kidney through directed differentiation of human pluripotent stem cells, which bioengineering or scaffolding strategies have the most potential for kidney tissue formation, and basic parameters of the regenerative response to injury. As these projects progress, the consortium will incorporate systematic investigations in physiologic function of in vitro and in vivo differentiated kidney tissue, strategies for engraftment in experimental animals, and development of therapeutic approaches to activate innate reparative responses.
Jorgensen, Trine	Inflammation and Immunity	30853311	29755457	29430334	25708485	25504931	24477163	24442428	23754362	22585710	20018631	Vitamin D deficiency is an established risk factor for many autoimmune diseases and the anti-inflammatory properties of vitamin D underscore its potential therapeutic value for these diseases. However, results of vitamin D3 supplementation clinical trials have been varied. To understand the clinical heterogeneity, we reviewed the pre-clinical data on vitamin D activity in four common autoimmune diseases: multiple sclerosis (MS), rheumatoid arthritis (RA), systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), in which patients are commonly maintained on oral vitamin D3 supplementation. In contrast, many pre-clinical studies utilize other methods of manipulation (i.e. genetic, injection). Given the many actions of vitamin D3 and data supporting a vitamin D-independent role of the Vitamin D receptor (VDR), a more detailed mechanistic understanding of vitamin D3 activity is needed to properly translate pre-clinical findings into the clinic. Therefore, we assessed studies based on route of vitamin D3 administration, and identified where discrepancies in results exist and where more research is needed to establish the benefit of vitamin D supplementation.	In addition to determining biological sex, sex hormones are known to influence health and disease via regulation of immune cell activities and modulation of target-organ susceptibility to immune-mediated damage. Systemic autoimmune disorders, such as systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, and multiple sclerosis are more prevalent in females, while cancer shows the opposite pattern. Sex hormones have been repeatedly suggested to play a part in these biases. In this review, we will discuss how androgens and the expression of functional androgen receptor affect immune cells and how this may dampen or alter immune response(s) and affect autoimmune disease incidences and progression.	Patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) often have elevated levels of type I interferon (IFN, particularly IFNα), a cytokine that can drive many of the symptoms associated with this autoimmune disorder. Additionally, the presence of autoantibody-secreting plasma cells contributes to the systemic inflammation observed in SLE and IFNα supports the survival of these cells. Current therapies for SLE are limited to broad immunosuppression or B cell-targeting antibody-mediated depletion strategies, which do not eliminate autoantibody-secreting plasma cells. Recent clinical trials testing the efficacy of IFNα neutralization in SLE have delivered disappointing results, with primary endpoints not being met or with minimal improvements, while studies evaluating antibody therapy targeting the type I IFN receptor was more successful and is currently being tested in phase III clinical studies. As many studies have supported the idea that plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) are the main source of IFNα in SLE, specifically targeting pDCs in SLE represents a new therapeutic option. Murine models suggest pDC ablation effectively ameliorates or reduces lupus-like disease development in spontaneous models of lupus and pre-clinical and phase I clinical trials support the safety of such a therapy in humans. Here we review animal studies and the current status of clinical trials targeting IFNα, type I interferon receptor and pDCs in SLE.	Sex-based disparities in immune responses are well known phenomena. The two most important factors accounting for the sex-bias in immunity are genetics and sex hormones. Effects of female sex hormones, estrogen and progesterone are well established, however the role of testosterone is not completely understood. Evidence from unrelated studies points to an immunosuppressive role of testosterone on different components of the immune system, but the underlying molecular mechanisms remains unknown. In this review we evaluate the effect of testosterone on key cellular components of innate and adaptive immunity. Specifically, we highlight the importance of testosterone in down-regulating the systemic immune response by cell type specific effects in the context of immunological disorders. Further studies are required to elucidate the molecular mechanisms of testosterone-induced immunosuppression, leading the way to the identification of novel therapeutic targets for immune disorders. 	Patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) often present with elevated levels of interferon-α (IFNα) in serum. Plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) have been suggested to be the primary source of IFNα in SLE due to their capacity to produce high levels of IFNα. During viral infection, a subset of pDCs expressing sialic acid-binding immunoglobulin-type lectin H (Siglec H) produces the majority of pDC-derived IFNα. The aim of this study was to provide evidence that Siglec H-positive pDCs are pathogenic in the IFNα-dependent B6.Nba2 mouse model of lupus. B6.Nba2 blood dendritic cell antigen 2 (BDCA-2)-diphtheria toxin receptor (DTR)-transgenic (Tg) mice were treated intraperitoneally with DT 3 times weekly starting at 4 weeks or 12 weeks of age and analyzed at 12 weeks and 18 weeks of age, respectively. Lupus-like disease development was measured by the presence of elevated levels of autoantibodies in serum (as determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay), increased expression of IFN-inducible genes (as determined by real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction), increased IgG immune complex deposition in kidney glomeruli (as determined by immunofluorescence staining), spontaneous lymphocyte activation, and differentiation of B cells into antibody-producing plasma cells (as determined by flow cytometry). B6.Nba2 mice in which Siglec H-positive pDCs were depleted for 6-8 weeks displayed reduced levels of IFNα-induced gene transcripts and decreased anti-chromatin autoantibody levels in serum, and significantly fewer activated splenic T cells and B cells, germinal center B cells, follicular helper T cells, and splenic plasma cells. In 18-week-old mice, IgG immune complex deposition in kidney glomeruli was similarly reduced. The development of lupus-like disease in congenic B6.Nba2 mice depends on Siglec H-positive pDCs. We suggest that depletion of Siglec H-positive pDCs represents a novel cellular target in SLE.	Most systemic autoimmune diseases occur more frequently in females than in males. This is particularly evident in Sjögren's syndrome, systemic lupus erythromatosis (SLE) and thyroid autoimmunity, where the ratio of females to males ranges from 20:1 to 8:1. Our understanding of the etiology of SLE implies important roles for genetics, environmental factors and sex hormones, but the relative significance of each remains unknown. Using the New Zealand hybrid mouse model system of SLE, we present here a new fetal liver chimera-based system in which we can segregate effects of immune system genes from that of sex hormones in vivo. We show that female hematopoietic cells express an intrinsic capacity to drive lupus-like disease in both male and female recipient mice, suggesting that this capacity is hormone independent. Particularly, only chimeric mice with a female hematopoietic system showed significantly increased numbers of germinal center B cells, memory B cells and plasma cells followed by a spontaneous loss of tolerance to nuclear components and hence elevated serum antinuclear autoantibodies. A protective effect of testosterone was noted with regard to disease onset, but not disease incidence. Thus, genetic factors encoded within the female hematopoietic system can effectively drive lupus-like disease even in male recipients. 	Systemic lupus erythematosus is an autoimmune disease characterized by elevated production of autoreactive Abs. The disease has a much higher prevalence in women than in men. Although testosterone has been shown to be protective in the disease, and estrogens exacerbating, the discrepancy in prevalence between men and women is still not well understood and the mechanism behind it is unknown. We have recently described that male (New Zealand black [NZB] × New Zealand white [NZW])F1 mice have higher levels of Gr1(+)CD11b(+) cells, and that these cells suppress autoantibody production in vivo. In this article, we extend our findings to show that similarly to humans, female lupus-prone (NZB × NZW)F1 mice also respond with stronger Ab responses to thymus-dependent Ag immunization than male littermates. Furthermore, the presence or absence of Gr1-expressing cells not only control Ag-specific Ab responses in male, but not female, (NZB × NZW)F1 mice, but also significantly alter the activation and differentiation of CD4(+) T cells in vitro and in vivo. In particular, we found that Gr1(+) cells from male (NZB × NZW)F1 mice suppress the differentiation and effector function of CXCR5(+)PD-1(+) T follicular helper cells, thereby controlling germinal center formation and plasma cell differentiation. This new finding strongly supports efforts to develop new drugs that target myeloid cell subsets in a number of T and B cell-mediated diseases with a female predominance. 	Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) develops much more readily in females than in males. Previous research has focused primarily on identifying mechanisms pertinent to the pathology in females. The aim of the current study was to delineate active protective mechanisms in males. We present evidence of a new male-associated mechanism of protection against the development of lupus-like disease in lupus-prone (NZB × NZW)F1 mice. We identified previously uncharacterized cellular and functional differences in myeloid cells between male and female (NZB × NZW)F1 mice, with the use of flow cytometry, confocal imaging, in vivo antibody-mediated depletion, and in vitro cell coculture assays. A population of Gr-1(high) Ly-6G+CD11b+ myeloid cells was found to be constitutively increased in male (NZB × NZW)F1 mice as compared with female mice and was regulated by testosterone. The cells were located adjacent to spleen B cell follicles in vivo and were found to directly inhibit cytokine-induced differentiation of naive B cells into antibody-secreting cells in vitro. Most notably, treatment with anti-Gr-1-depleting antibodies increased the spontaneous production of antinuclear autoantibodies in male (NZB × NZW)F1 mice, while a similar approach in female mice had no effect on disease development. Male lupus-prone (NZB × NZW)F1 mice harbor elevated levels of a population of myeloid cells with pronounced immunosuppressive capacities that specifically target B cells and the production of antibodies in vivo. We suggest that these cells represent a male-driven inhibitory mechanism involved in the control of B cell pathogenesis, delaying (or preventing) lupus-like disease development in otherwise genetically predisposed male (NZB × NZW)F1 mice.	Act1 is a negative regulator of B-cell activation factor of the TNF family (BAFF) and CD40L-induced signaling. BALB/C mice lacking Act1 develop systemic autoimmunity resembling systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and Sjögren's syndrome (SjS). SLE and SjS are characterized by anti-nuclear IgG autoantibody (ANA-IgG) production and inflammation of peripheral tissues. As autoantibody production can occur in a T-cell dependent or T-cell independent manner, we investigated the role of T-cell help during Act1-mediated autoimmunity. Act1-deficiency was bred onto C57Bl/6 (B6.Act1(-/-) ) mice and B6.TCRβ(-/-) TCRδ(-/-) Act1(-/-) (TKO) mice were generated. While TCRβ/δ-sufficient B6.Act1(-/-) mice developed splenomegaly and lymphadenopathy, hypergammaglobulinemia, elevated levels of ANA-IgG, and kidney pathology, TKO mice failed to develop any such signs of disease. Neither B6.Act1(-/-) nor TKO mice developed SjS-like disease, suggesting that epigenetic interactions on the BALB/C background are responsible for this phenotype in BALB/C.Act1(-/-) mice. Interestingly, BAFF-driven transitional B-cell abnormalities, previously reported in BALB/C.Act1(-/-) mice, were intact in B6.Act1(-/-) mice and largely independent of T cells. In conclusion, T cells are necessary for the development of SLE-like disease in B6.Act1(-/-) mice, but not BAFF-driven transitional B-cell differentiation.	Autoantibodies are of central importance in the pathogenesis of Ab-mediated autoimmune disorders. The murine lupus susceptibility locus Nba2 on chromosome 1 and the syntenic human locus are associated with a loss of immune tolerance that leads to antinuclear Ab production. To identify gene intervals within Nba2 that control the development of autoantibody-producing B cells and to determine the cellular components through which Nba2 genes accomplish this, we generated congenic mice expressing various Nba2 intervals where genes for the FcgammaR, SLAM, and IFN-inducible families are encoded. Analysis of congenic strains demonstrated that the FcgammaR and SLAM intervals independently controlled the severity of autoantibody production and renal disease, yet are both required for lupus susceptibility. Deregulated homeostasis of terminally differentiated B cells was found to be controlled by the FcgammaR interval where FcgammaRIIb-mediated apoptosis of germinal center B cells and plasma cells was impaired. Increased numbers of activated plasmacytoid dendritic cells that were distinctly CD19+ and promoted plasma cell differentiation via the proinflammatory cytokines IL-10 and IFNalpha were linked to the SLAM interval. These findings suggest that SLAM and FcgammaR intervals act cooperatively to influence the clinical course of disease through supporting the differentiation and survival of autoantibody-producing cells.
Kalady, Matthew	Cancer Biology	31082910	30451761	30353615	30318507	29580878	29578919	29465458	29184477	28916945	28527628	To evaluate the independent prognostic ability of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) tumor regression scores within pathologic stage II and III rectal cancers. Response to neoadjuvant chemoradiation (nCRT) has been debated as a biologic surrogate for tumor biology and prognosis in rectal cancer. AJCC regression scores have been shown to correlate with prognosis. Patient demographics, tumor characteristics, and AJCC scores (0 = complete response; 1 = isolated tumor cells remaining; 2 = residual cancer outgrown by fibrosis; 3 = extensive residual cancer) were assessed from 545 rectal cancer patients treated by nCRT followed by surgery at a single institution. Patients were classified as responders (score 0-2) or nonresponders (score 3). Survival analyses were performed using Cox proportional hazards models. Of 545 cases, 123 and 182 were pathologic stage II and III, respectively. Median follow-up was 4.9 years. AJCC regression scores were not independently prognostic within stage II cancers. However, AJCC scores were strongly associated with prognosis within stage III cancers (nonresponse 5-year overall survival [OS] 27% vs 67%, P &lt; 0.001). Stage III responders (N = 139, 76.4%) had similar outcomes to stage II (5-year OS 67% vs 74%, P = 0.89). Conversely, stage III nonresponders (N = 43, 23.6%) approached stage IV outcomes (5-year OS 27% vs 18%, P = 0.09). On multivariable analysis, nonresponse (hazard ratio 3.2, 95% confidence interval 1.7-6.2), along with positive margin, abdominoperineal resection, and no adjuvant chemotherapy administration were independently associated with worse OS. AJCC response score after nCRT is a novel prognostic factor in pathologic stage III rectal cancer and may guide surveillance and adjuvant therapy decisions.	Disease-free survival estimated from the time of surgery does not account for the changing likelihood of survival based on time already accrued. Conditional disease-free survival is defined as the probability of remaining disease free after reaching a specific time point without recurrence. The purpose of this study was to evaluate conditional disease-free survival for patients with rectal cancer who were treated by proctectomy after neoadjuvant chemoradiation. Demographics, tumor characteristics, and tumor regression scores were assessed. Three-year conditional disease-free survival was estimated at x year after surgery based on the formula cDFS3 = DFS(x+3)/DFS(x), where DFS is disease-free survival and cDFS is conditional disease-free survival. Analyses were performed using Cox proportional hazards models. The study was conducted at a single tertiary referral center. A total of 545 patients with rectal cancer who were treated by neoadjuvant chemoradiation and curative intent surgery between 1992 and 2012 were included. Disease-free survival and conditional disease-free survival were measured. The median patient age was 57.5 years, and 28.4% were women. Median follow-up was 5.9 years. Disease-free survival at 1, 3, and 5 years was 89%, 71%, and 63%. The probability of remaining disease free for an additional 3 years for patients disease free at 1, 3, and 5 years was 75%, 83%, and 82%. Tumor regression, pathologic stage, margin status, differentiation, and procedure (low anterior versus abdominoperineal resection) were associated with disease-free survival on multivariable analysis (p &lt; 0.05), but their relevance varied over time. R1 resection and differentiation were initially significant but not at 5 years. In contrast, tumor regression after neoadjuvant chemoradiation had a long-lasting impact on survival (at 5 y, conditional disease-free survival for an additional 3 y: 91%, 85%, 76%, and 71% for regression scores 0, 1, 2, and 3; p = 0.002). This was a retrospective study over 20 years, with evolution in adjuvant therapies during this time. Conditional disease-free survival estimates improved over time, confirming that most patients will see a recurrence within the first few years. The impact of specific prognostic factors evolves variably over time. This information is useful to patients and providers and can help guide counseling and surveillance. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A771.	Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains a leading killer in the U.S. with resistance to treatment as the largest hurdle to cure. Colorectal cancer-initiating cells (CICs) are a self-renewing tumor population that contribute to tumor relapse. Here, we report that patient-derived CICs display relative chemoresistance compared with differentiated progeny. In contrast, conventional cell lines failed model therapeutic resistance. CICs preferentially repaired chemotherapy-induced DNA breaks, prompting us to interrogate DNA damage pathways against which pharmacologic inhibitors have been developed. We found that CICs critically depended on the key single-strand break repair mediator, poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP), to survive treatment with standard-of-care chemotherapy. Small molecule PARP inhibitors (PARPi) sensitized CICs to chemotherapy and reduced chemotherapy-treated CIC viability, self-renewal, and DNA damage repair. Although PARPi monotherapy failed to kill CICs, combined PARPi therapy with chemotherapy attenuated tumor growth in vivo. Clinical significance of PARPi for CRC patients was supported by elevated PARP levels in colorectal tumors compared with normal colon, with further increases in metastases. Collectively, our results suggest that PARP inhibition serves as a point of fragility for CICs by augmenting therapeutic efficacy of chemotherapy. Stem Cells 2019;37:42-53.	Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a heterogeneous disease with distinct clinical subsets based on underlying genetic and epigenetic changes. DNA hypermethylation yields a unique CRC subset with a distinct phenotype and clinical behaviour, but this oncogenic pathway is not fully characterised. This study identifies and characterises miR-1247 as a novel tumour suppressor microRNA in methylated human colon cancers. Tumour samples from patients with hypermethylated and non-methylated colon cancer and cell lines were evaluated for miR-1247 expression and function. A murine subcutaneous xenograft model was used for in vivo functional studies. miR-1247 was methylated and underexpressed in methylator colon cancers. Overexpression of miR-1247 significantly inhibited cell proliferation, decreased tumour cell motility, induced apoptosis, and mitigated tumour formation capacity both in vivo and in vitro. Pharmacologic demethylation increased miR-1247 expression and produced similar anti-tumour activities. Mechanistic investigations revealed that MYCBP2, a member of the c-myc oncogene family, is a direct functional target of miR-1247. Furthermore, in CRC patients, MYCBP2 protein levels are associated with miR-1247 levels and survival. miR-1247 acts as a tumour suppressor by inhibiting MYCBP2 in methylator colon cancer. The MYCBP2/c-myc axis may underlie the anti-tumour activities of miR-1247 and is a potential therapeutic target via demethylation agents.	Presentation of rectal cancer cases at a colorectal cancer multidisciplinary conference (CRC-MDC) is a required standard for the newly formed National Accreditation Program for Rectal Cancer administered by the Commission on Cancer. The aim of this study was to determine the frequency and manner in which CRC-MDC changed the management of rectal cancer patients at a tertiary academic center. All rectal cancer cases presented at a weekly CRC-MDC between July 2015 and June 2016 were prospectively included. Patient demographics and clinical information were recorded. The presenting physician completed a uniform written questionnaire outlining any changes in management as a result of the discussion. There were 408 rectal cancer cases included, and survey responses were obtained for 371 (91%). Thirty-nine patients (11%) had stage IV disease and 20 (5%) had locally recurrent cancer. There was a documented change in plan as a result of the CRC-MDC discussion in 97 of 371 (26%) cases surveyed. Changes in management included a change in therapy or change in therapy sequence in 76 cases, and recommendation of additional evaluation in 36 cases. Rates of management change were similar regardless of surgeon experience. Changes occurred in 23%, 28%, and 26% of cases presented by surgeons with &lt;10, 10 to 20, and &gt;20 years of experience, respectively (chi-square p = 0.63). The CRC-MDC changes clinical management for a significant portion of rectal cancer patients at a tertiary center, independent of the presenting surgeon's years of clinical experience. Our results support the CRC-MDC standard for the National Accreditation Program for Rectal Cancer.	The incidence of colorectal cancer in the young (under age 40) is increasing, and this population has worse oncologic outcomes. Mucinous histology is a potential prognostic factor in colorectal cancer, but has not been evaluated specifically in young patients. The objective of the study was to determine factors associated with poor outcome in young patients with colorectal cancer (≤40 years) and to determine relationships between mucinous histology and oncologic outcomes in this population. This is a retrospective study. Patients from a single-institution tertiary care center were studied. A total of 224 patients with colorectal cancer under 40 years of age diagnosed between 1990 and 2010 were included (mean age, 34.7 years; 51.3% female). 34 patients (15.2%) had mucinous histology. There were no interventions. Oncologic outcomes were analyzed according to the presence of mucinous histology. The mucinous and nonmucin colorectal cancer study populations were statistically similar in age, sex, tumor location, pathological stage, differentiation, and adjuvant chemotherapy use. Five-year disease-free survival was 29.1% versus 71.3% (p &lt; 0.0001) and 5-year overall survival was 54.7% versus 80.3% (p &lt; 0.0001) for mucinous and nonmucinous patients, respectively. Mucinous colorectal cancers recurred earlier at a median time of 36.4 months versus 94.2 months for nonmucin colorectal cancers (p &lt; 0.001). On multivariate analysis, pathological stage (stage II HR, 3.61; 95% CI, 1.37-9.50; stage III HR, 5.27; 95% CI, 2.12-12.33), positive margins (HR, 1.95; 95% CI, 1.12-3.23), angiolymphatic invasion (HR, 2.15; 95% CI, 1.26-3.97), and mucinous histology (HR, 2.36; 95% CI, 1.44-3.96) were independently associated with worse disease-free and overall survival. This is a retrospective study without genetic information. Mucinous histology is a negative prognostic factor in young patients with colorectal cancer. This is associated with early and high recurrence rates, despite use of standard neoadjuvant and adjuvant regimens. Physicians need to be aware of this association and potentially explore novel treatment options. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A575.	Advances in molecular biology and biomarker research have significantly impacted our understanding and treatment of multiple solid malignancies. In rectal cancer, where neoadjuvant chemoradiation is widely used for locally advanced disease, most efforts have focused on the identification of predictors of response in an attempt to appropriately select patients for multimodality therapy. A variety of biomarkers have been studied, including genetic mutations, chromosomal copy number alterations, and single as well as multigene expression patterns. Also, as transanal resection of rectal tumors requires accurate preoperative detection of lymph node metastasis, the identification of biomarkers of regional nodal involvement has been another important field of active research. While preliminary results have been promising, lack of external validation means has a limited translation to clinical use. This review summarizes recent developments in rectal cancer biomarker research, highlighting the challenges associated with their adoption, and evaluating their potential for clinical use.	Neoadjuvant chemoradiation (CRT) for rectal cancer induces variable responses, and better response has been associated with improved oncologic outcomes. Our group has previously shown that the administration of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, commonly known as statins, is associated with improved response to neoadjuvant CRT in rectal cancer patients. The purpose of this study was to study the effects of simvastatin on colorectal cancer cells and explore its potential as a radiation-sensitizer in vitro. Four colorectal cancer cell lines (SW480, DLD1, SW837, and HRT18) were used to test the effects of simvastatin alone, radiation alone, and combination therapy. Outcome measures included ATP-based cell viability, colony formation, and protein (immunoblot) assays. The combination of radiation and simvastatin inhibited colony formation and cell viability of all four CRC lines, to a greater degree than either treatment alone (p &lt; 0.01). In addition, the effects of simvastatin in this combination therapy were dose dependent, with increased concentrations resulting in more potentiated inhibitory effects. The radiosensitizing effects of simvastatin on cell viability were negated by the presence of exogenous GGPP in the media. On protein analyses of irradiated cells, simvastatin treatment inhibited phosphorylation of ERK1/2, in a dose-dependent manner, while the total levels of ERK1/2 remained stable. In addition, the combined treatment resulted in increased levels of cleaved caspase 3, indicating greater apoptotic activity in the cells treated with radiation and simvastatin together. Treatment with simvastatin hindered CRC cell viability and enhanced radiation sensitivity in vitro. These effects were tied to the depletion of GGPP and the decreased phosphorylation of ERK1/2, suggesting a prominent role for the EGFR-RAS-ERK1/2 pathway, through which statin enhances radiation sensitivity.	Management of locally advanced and metastatic colorectal cancer (CRC) requires the expertise of multiple specialists. Multidisciplinary clinics (MDCs) are a working model designed to facilitate delivery of coordinated care. The present study evaluated the effects of MDC on the time to treatment (TTT). Patients with CRC or locally advanced anal cancer who were evaluated at a single-institution MDC from January 2014 to October 2015 were identified from an institutional registry. The clinical characteristics and timelines for various aspects of treatment were retrospectively reviewed and recorded. A control population of patients not evaluated at the MDC was matched 1:2 by disease and the number of treating specialties. The primary endpoints were the TTT from diagnosis and the TTT from the first consultation. A total of 105 patients were included: 35 were evaluated at the MDC and 70 were controls. The MDC patients experienced a 7.8-day shorter TTT from the first consultation (21.5 vs. 29.3 days; P = .01). The difference was greater for patients visiting 3 departments (21.3 vs. 30.6 days; P &lt; .001). Patients requiring neoadjuvant chemoradiation accounted for most of the decreased interval compared with those requiring surgery alone as their first treatment. The proportion of patients initiating treatment within 3 weeks from the first consultation was greater for those seen in the MDC (57.1% vs. 30% for controls; P = .01). Implementation of a multidisciplinary CRC clinic yielded decreased intervals from the first consultation to treatment in our institution. Focusing efforts to increase MDC usage will improve treatment efficiency and improve patient access.	NA
Kallianpur, Asha	Genomic Medicine Institute	30209774	29968489	29216383	28447399	28427421	26690344	26129753	25144566	24996618	15834437	Dysregulated iron transport and a compromised blood-brain barrier are implicated in HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND). We quantified the levels of proteins involved in iron transport and/or angiogenesis-ceruloplasmin, haptoglobin, and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-as well as biomarkers of neuroinflammation, in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from 405 individuals with HIV infection and comprehensive neuropsychiatric assessments. Associations with HAND [defined by a Global Deficit Score (GDS) ≥ 0.5, GDS as a continuous measure (cGDS), or by Frascati criteria] were evaluated for the highest versus lowest tertile of each biomarker, adjusting for potential confounders. Higher CSF VEGF was associated with GDS-defined impairment [odds ratio (OR) 2.17, p = 0.006] and cGDS in unadjusted analyses and remained associated with GDS impairment after adjustment (p = 0.018). GDS impairment was also associated with higher CSF ceruloplasmin (p = 0.047) and with higher ceruloplasmin and haptoglobin in persons with minimal comorbidities (ORs 2.37 and 2.13, respectively; both p = 0.043). In persons with minimal comorbidities, higher ceruloplasmin and haptoglobin were associated with HAND by Frascati criteria (both p &lt; 0.05), and higher ceruloplasmin predicted worse impairment (higher cGDS values, p &lt; 0.01). In the subgroup with undetectable viral load and minimal comorbidity, CSF ceruloplasmin and haptoglobin were strongly associated with GDS impairment (ORs 5.57 and 2.96, respectively; both p &lt; 0.01) and HAND (both p &lt; 0.01). Concurrently measured CSF IL-6 and TNF-α were only weakly correlated to these three biomarkers. Higher CSF ceruloplasmin, haptoglobin, and VEGF are associated with a significantly greater likelihood of HAND, suggesting that interventions aimed at disordered iron transport and angiogenesis may be beneficial in this disorder.	Some HIV-associated complications involve mitochondrial dysfunction and may be less common in individuals with iron-loading HFE (hemochromatosis gene) variants. We evaluated HFE 845A and 187G alleles in relation to mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) levels in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from 85 individuals with HIV infection on uninterrupted antiretroviral therapy (ART) for 15 or more consecutive weeks. Carriers of HFE gene variants (N = 24) had significantly higher mtDNA levels than noncarriers (N = 61), after adjusting for age, race, sex, and type of ART [adjusted β-coefficient 297, p-value &lt; .001 for at least one HFE variant], but mtDNA declined among all individuals on study during 48 weeks on ART. Increased cellular mtDNA content may represent a compensatory response to mitochondrial stress that is influenced by iron-loading HFE variants.	Postdiarrheal hemolytic-uremic syndrome (D+HUS) following Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli (STEC) infection is a serious condition lacking specific treatment. Host immune dysregulation and genetic susceptibility to complement hyperactivation are implicated in non-STEC-related HUS. However, genetic susceptibility to D+HUS remains largely uncharacterized. Patients with culture-confirmed STEC diarrhea, identified through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention FoodNet surveillance system (2007-2012), were serotyped and classified by laboratory and/or clinical criteria as having suspected, probable, or confirmed D+HUS or as controls and underwent genotyping at 200 loci linked to nondiarrheal HUS or similar pathologies. Genetic associations with D+HUS were explored by multivariable regression, with adjustment for known risk factors. Of 641 enrollees with STEC O157:H7, 80 had suspected D+HUS (41 with probable and 32 with confirmed D+HUS). Twelve genes related to cytokine signaling, complement pathways, platelet function, pathogen recognition, iron transport, and endothelial function were associated with D+HUS in multivariable-adjusted analyses (P ≤ .05). Of 12 significant single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), 5 were associated with all levels of D+HUS (intergenic SNP rs10874639, TFRC rs3804141, EDN1 rs5370, GP1BA rs121908064, and B2M rs16966334), and 7 SNPs (6 non-complement related) were associated with confirmed D+HUS (all P &lt; .05). Polymorphisms in many non-complement-related genes may contribute to D+HUS susceptibility. These results require replication, but they suggest novel therapeutic targets in patients with D+HUS.	HIV-associated neurocognitive disorder (HAND) often complicates HIV infection despite combination antiretroviral therapy (ART) and may be influenced by host genomics. We performed a genome-wide association study (GWAS) of HAND in 1,050 CNS HIV Anti-Retroviral Therapy Effects Research (CHARTER) Study participants. All participants underwent standardized, comprehensive neurocognitive, and neuromedical assessments to determine if they had cognitive impairment as assessed by the Global Deficit Score (GDS), and individuals with comorbidities that could confound diagnosis of HAND were excluded. Neurocognitive outcomes included GDS-defined neurocognitive impairment (NCI; binary GDS, 366 cases with GDS ≥ 0.5 and 684 controls with GDS &lt; 0.5, and GDS as a continuous variable) and Frascati HAND definitions that incorporate assessment of functional impairment by self-report and performance-based criteria. Genotype data were obtained using the Affymetrix Human SNP Array 6.0 platform. Multivariable logistic or linear regression-based association tests were performed for GDS-defined NCI and HAND. GWAS results did not reveal SNPs meeting the genome-wide significance threshold (5.0 × 10<sup>-8</sup> ) for GDS-defined NCI or HAND. For binary GDS, the most significant SNPs were rs6542826 (P = 8.1 × 10<sup>-7</sup> ) and rs11681615 (1.2 × 10<sup>-6</sup> ), both located on chromosome 2 in SH3RF3. The most significant SNP for continuous GDS was rs11157436 (P = 1.3 × 10<sup>-7</sup> ) on chromosome 14 in the T-cell-receptor alpha locus; three other SNPs in this gene were also associated with binary GDS (P ≤ 2.9 × 10<sup>-6</sup> ). This GWAS, conducted among ART-era participants from a single cohort with robust neurological phenotyping, suggests roles for several biologically plausible loci in HAND that deserve further exploration. © 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.	HIV-associated neurocognitive disorder (HAND) remains common, despite antiretroviral therapy (ART). HIV dysregulates iron metabolism, but cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of iron and iron-transport proteins in HIV-infected (HIV+) persons are largely unknown. The objectives of this study were to characterize CSF iron-related biomarkers in HIV+ adults and explore their relationships to known predictors of HAND. We quantified total iron, transferrin and heavy-chain (H)-ferritin by immunoassay in CSF sampled by lumbar puncture in 403 HIV+ participants in a multi-center, observational study and evaluated biomarker associations with demographic and HIV-related correlates of HAND [e.g., age, sex, self-reported race/ethnicity, ART, and detectable plasma virus and CSF viral load (VL)] by multivariable regression. In a subset (N = 110) with existing CSF: serum albumin (QAlb) measurements, QAlb and comorbidity severity were also included as covariates to account for variability in the blood-CSF-barrier. Among 403 individuals (median age 43 years, 19% women, 56% non-Whites, median nadir CD4+ T cell count 180 cells/µL, 46% with undetectable plasma virus), men had 25% higher CSF transferrin (median 18.1 vs. 14.5 µg/mL), and 71% higher H-ferritin (median 2.9 vs. 1.7 ng/mL) than women (both p-values ≤0.01). CSF iron was 41% higher in self-reported Hispanics and 27% higher in (non-Hispanic) Whites than in (non-Hispanic) Blacks (median 5.2 and 4.7 µg/dL in Hispanics and Whites, respectively, vs. 3.7 µg/dL in Blacks, both p ≤ 0.01); these findings persisted after adjustment for age, sex, and HIV-specific factors. Median H-ferritin was 25% higher (p &lt; 0.05), and transferrin 14% higher (p = 0.06), in Whites than Blacks. Transferrin and H-ferritin were 33 and 50% higher, respectively, in older (age &gt; 50 years) than in younger persons (age ≤ 35 years; both p &lt; 0.01), but these findings lost statistical significance in subset analyses that adjusted for QAlb and comorbidity. After these additional adjustments, associations were observed for CSF iron and transferrin with race/ethnicity as well as CSF VL, for transferrin with sex and ART, and for H-ferritin with plasma virus detectability and significant comorbidity (all p &lt; 0.05). CSF iron biomarkers are associated with demographic factors, ART, and CSF VL in HIV+ adults. Future studies should investigate a role for CNS iron dysregulation, to which an altered blood-CSF barrier may contribute, in HAND.	Anemia has been linked to adverse human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) outcomes, including dementia, in the era before highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). Milder forms of HIV-associated neurocognitive disorder (HAND) remain common in HIV-infected persons, despite HAART, but whether anemia predicts HAND in the HAART era is unknown. We evaluated time-dependent associations of anemia and cross-sectional associations of red blood cell indices with neurocognitive impairment in a multicenter, HAART-era HIV cohort study (N = 1261), adjusting for potential confounders, including age, nadir CD4(+) T-cell count, zidovudine use, and comorbid conditions. Subjects underwent comprehensive neuropsychiatric and neuromedical assessments. HAND, defined according to standardized criteria, occurred in 595 subjects (47%) at entry. Mean corpuscular volume and mean corpuscular hemoglobin were positively associated with the global deficit score, a continuous measure of neurocognitive impairment (both P &lt; .01), as well as with all HAND, milder forms of HAND, and HIV-associated dementia in multivariable analyses (all P &lt; .05). Anemia independently predicted development of HAND during a median follow-up of 72 months (adjusted hazard ratio, 1.55; P &lt; .01). Anemia and red blood cell indices predict HAND in the HAART era and may contribute to risk assessment. Future studies should address whether treating anemia may help to prevent HAND or improve cognitive function in HIV-infected persons.	Neurocognitive impairment (NCI) remains an important complication in persons infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Ancestry-related mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) haplogroups have been associated with outcomes of HIV infection and combination antiretroviral therapy (CART), and with neurodegenerative diseases. We hypothesize that mtDNA haplogroups are associated with NCI in HIV-infected adults and performed a genetic association study in the CNS HIV Antiretroviral Therapy Effects Research (CHARTER) cohort. CHARTER is an observational study of ambulatory HIV-infected adults. Haplogroups were assigned using mtDNA sequence, and principal components were derived from ancestry-informative nuclear DNA variants. Outcomes were cross-sectional global deficit score (GDS) as a continuous measure, GDS impairment (GDS ≥ 0.50), and HIV-associated neurocognitive disorder (HAND) using international criteria. Multivariable models were adjusted for comorbidity status (incidental vs contributing), current CART, plasma HIV RNA, reading ability, and CD4 cell nadir. Haplogroups were available from 1027 persons; median age 43 years, median CD4 nadir 178 cells/mm(3), 72% on CART, and 46% with HAND. The 102 (9.9%) persons of genetically determined admixed Hispanic ancestry had more impairment by GDS or HAND than persons of European or African ancestry (P &lt; .001 for all). In multivariate models including persons of admixed Hispanic ancestry, those with haplogroup B had lower GDS (β = -0.34; P = .008) and less GDS impairment (odds ratio = 0.16; 95% confidence interval, .04, .63; P = .009) than other haplogroups. There were no significant haplogroup associations among persons of European or African ancestry. In these mostly CART-treated persons, mtDNA haplogroup B was associated with less NCI among persons of genetically determined Hispanic ancestry. mtDNA variation may represent an ancestry-specific factor influencing NCI in HIV-infected persons.	HIV sensory neuropathy and distal neuropathic pain (DNP) are common, disabling complications associated with combination antiretroviral therapy (cART). We previously associated iron-regulatory genetic polymorphisms with a reduced risk of HIV sensory neuropathy during more neurotoxic types of cART. We here evaluated the impact of polymorphisms in 19 iron-regulatory genes on DNP in 560 HIV-infected subjects from a prospective, observational study, who underwent neurological examinations to ascertain peripheral neuropathy and structured interviews to ascertain DNP. Genotype-DNP associations were explored by logistic regression and permutation-based analytical methods. Among 559 evaluable subjects, 331 (59%) developed HIV-SN, and 168 (30%) reported DNP. Fifteen polymorphisms in 8 genes (p&lt;0.05) and 5 variants in 4 genes (p&lt;0.01) were nominally associated with DNP: polymorphisms in TF, TFRC, BMP6, ACO1, SLC11A2, and FXN conferred reduced risk (adjusted odds ratios [ORs] ranging from 0.2 to 0.7, all p&lt;0.05); other variants in TF, CP, ACO1, BMP6, and B2M conferred increased risk (ORs ranging from 1.3 to 3.1, all p&lt;0.05). Risks associated with some variants were statistically significant either in black or white subgroups but were consistent in direction. ACO1 rs2026739 remained significantly associated with DNP in whites (permutation p&lt;0.0001) after correction for multiple tests. Several of the same iron-regulatory-gene polymorphisms, including ACO1 rs2026739, were also associated with severity of DNP (all p&lt;0.05). Common polymorphisms in iron-management genes are associated with DNP and with DNP severity in HIV-infected persons receiving cART. Consistent risk estimates across population subgroups and persistence of the ACO1 rs2026739 association after adjustment for multiple testing suggest that genetic variation in iron-regulation and transport modulates susceptibility to DNP. 	The success of combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) in transforming the lives of HIV-infected individuals with access to these drugs is tempered by the increasing threat of HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND) to their overall health and quality of life. Intensive investigations over the past two decades have underscored the role of host immune responses, inflammation, and monocyte-derived macrophages in HAND, but the precise pathogenic mechanisms underlying HAND remain only partially delineated. Complicating research efforts and therapeutic drug development are the sheer complexity of HAND phenotypes, diagnostic imprecision, and the growing intersection of chronic immune activation with aging-related comorbidities. Yet, genetic studies still offer a powerful means of advancing individualized care for HIV-infected individuals at risk. There is an urgent need for 1) longitudinal studies using consistent phenotypic definitions of HAND in HIV-infected subpopulations at very high risk of being adversely impacted, such as children, 2) tissue studies that correlate neuropathological changes in multiple brain regions with genomic markers in affected individuals and with changes at the RNA, epigenomic, and/or protein levels, and 3) genetic association studies using more sensitive subphenotypes of HAND. The NIH Brain Initiative and Human Connectome Project, coupled with rapidly evolving systems biology and machine learning approaches for analyzing high-throughput genetic, transcriptomic and epigenetic data, hold promise for identifying actionable biological processes and gene networks that underlie HAND. This review summarizes the current state of understanding of host genetic factors predisposing to HAND in light of past challenges and suggests some priorities for future research to advance the understanding and clinical management of HAND in the cART era. 	Hepatic veno-occlusive disease (HVOD) is a serious complication of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). Since the liver is a major site of iron deposition in HFE-associated hemochromatosis, and iron has oxidative toxicity, we hypothesized that HFE genotype might influence the risk of HVOD after myeloablative HSCT. We determined HFE genotypes in 166 HSCT recipients who were evaluated prospectively for HVOD. We also tested whether a common variant of the rate-limiting urea cycle enzyme, carbamyl-phosphate synthetase (CPS), previously observed to protect against HVOD in this cohort, modified the effect of HFE genotype. Risk of HVOD was significantly higher in carriers of at least one C282Y allele (RR=3.7, 95% CI 1.2-12.1) and increased progressively with C282Y allelic dose (RR=1.7, 95% CI 0.4-6.8 in heterozygotes; RR=8.6, 95% CI 1.5-48.5 in homozygotes). The CPS A allele, which encodes a more efficient urea cycle enzyme, reduced the risk of HVOD associated with HFE C282Y. We conclude that HFE C282Y is a risk factor for HVOD and that CPS polymorphisms may counteract its adverse effects. Knowledge of these genotypes and monitoring of iron stores may facilitate risk-stratification and testing of strategies to prevent HVOD, such as iron chelation and pharmacologic support of the urea cycle.
Kang, Zizhen	Inflammation and Immunity	29352002	28821568	23995070	22699909	22608496	21272781	20303295	30670047	30372424	28990926	Dysregulation of the immune barrier function of the intestinal epithelium can often result in dysbiosis. In this study we report a novel role of intestinal epithelial cell (IEC)-derived liver kinase B1 (LKB1) in suppressing colitogenic microbiota. IEC-specific deletion of LKB1 (LKB1<sup>ΔIEC</sup>) resulted in an increased susceptibility to dextran sodium sulfate (DSS)-induced colitis and a definitive shift in the composition of the microbial population in the mouse intestine. Importantly, transfer of the microbiota from LKB1<sup>ΔIEC</sup> mice was sufficient to confer increased susceptibility to DSS-induced colitis in wild-type recipient mice. Collectively, the data indicate that LKB1 deficiency in intestinal epithelial cells nurtures the outgrowth of colitogenic bacteria in the commensal community. In addition, LKB1 deficiency in the intestinal epithelium reduced the production of IL-18 and antimicrobial peptides in the colon. Administration of exogenous IL-18 restored the expression of antimicrobial peptides, corrected the outgrowth of several bacterial genera, and rescued the LKB1<sup>ΔIEC</sup> mice from increased sensitivity to DSS challenge. Taken together, our study reveals an important function of LKB1 in IECs for suppressing colitogenic microbiota by IL-18 expression.	Although genetic polymorphisms in the LRRK2 gene are associated with a variety of diseases, the physiological function of LRRK2 remains poorly understood. In this study, we report a crucial role for LRRK2 in the activation of the NLRC4 inflammasome during host defense against Salmonella enteric serovar Typhimurium infection. LRRK2 deficiency reduced caspase-1 activation and IL-1β secretion in response to NLRC4 inflammasome activators in macrophages. Lrrk2<sup>-/-</sup> mice exhibited impaired clearance of pathogens after acute S. Typhimurium infection. Mechanistically, LRRK2 formed a complex with NLRC4 in the macrophages, and the formation of the LRRK2-NLRC4 complex led to the phosphorylation of NLRC4 at Ser533. Importantly, the kinase activity of LRRK2 is required for optimal NLRC4 inflammasome activation. Collectively, our study reveals an important role for LRRK2 in the host defense by promoting NLRC4 inflammasome activation.	Interleukin 17 (IL-17) is a signature cytokine of Th17 cells. We previously reported that deletion of NF-κB activator 1 (Act1), the key transducer of IL-17 receptor signaling, from the neuroectodermal lineage in mice (neurons, oligodendrocytes and astrocytes) results in attenuated severity of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Here we examined the cellular basis of this observation. EAE disease course was unaffected by deletion of Act1 in neurons or mature oligodendrocytes, and Act1 deletion in astrocytes only modestly affected disease course. Deletion of Act1 in NG2(+) glia resulted in markedly reduced EAE severity. Furthermore, IL-17 induced characteristic inflammatory mediator expression in NG2(+) glial cells. IL-17 also exhibited strong inhibitory effects on the maturation of oligodendrocyte lineage cells in vitro and reduced their survival. These data identify NG2(+) glia as the major CNS cellular target of IL-17 in EAE. The sensitivity of oligodendrocyte lineage cells to IL-17-mediated toxicity further suggests a direct link between inflammation and neurodegeneration in multiple sclerosis. 	Cuprizone inhibits mitochondrial function and induces demyelination in the corpus callosum, which resembles pattern III lesions in multiple sclerosis patients. However, the molecular and cellular mechanism by which cuprizone induces demyelination remains unclear. Interleukin-17 (IL-17) secreted by T helper 17 cells and γδT cells are essential in the development of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. In this study, we examined the importance of IL-17 signaling in cuprizone-induced demyelination. We found that mice deficient in IL-17A, IL-17 receptor C (IL-17RC), and adaptor protein Act1 (of IL-17R) all had reduced demyelination accompanied by lessened microglial and polydendrocyte cellular reactivity compared with that in wild-type mice in response to cuprizone feeding, demonstrating the essential role of IL-17-induced Act1-mediated signaling in cuprizone-induced demyelination. Importantly, specific deletion of Act1 in astrocytes reduced the severity of tissue injury in this model, indicating the critical role of CNS resident cells in the pathogenesis of cuprizone-induced demyelination. In cuprizone-fed mice, IL-17 was produced by CNS CD3(+) T cells, suggesting a source of IL-17 in CNS upon cuprizone treatment.	Interleukin-25 (IL-25 or IL-17E), a member of the structurally related IL-17 family, functions as an important mediator of T helper 2 cell-type (type 2) responses. We examined the cell type-specific role of IL-25-induced Act1-mediated signaling in protective immunity against helminth infection. Targeted Act1 deficiency in epithelial cells resulted in a marked delay in worm expulsion and abolished the expansion of the Lin(-)c-Kit(+) innate cell population in the mesenteric lymph node, lung, and liver. Th2 cell-inducing cytokine (IL-25 and IL-33) expression were reduced in the intestinal epithelial cells from the infected and IL-25-injected epithelial-specific Act1-deficient mice. Adoptive transfer of Lin(-)c-Kit(+) cells or combined injection of IL-25 and IL-33 restored the type 2 responses in these mice. Taken together, these results suggest that epithelial-specific Act1 mediates the expansion of the Lin(-)c-Kit(+) innate cell population through the positive-feedback loop of IL-25, initiating the type 2 immunity against helminth infection.	In this issue of Immunity, Shaw et al. (2011) report that the NOD-RICK signaling axis is required for the activation of dendritic cells infiltrating the central nervous system, leading to reactivation of antigen-specific T cells and autoimmune inflammation.	Interleukin-17 (IL-17) secreted by T helper 17 (Th17) cells is essential in the development of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). However, it remains unclear how IL-17-mediated signaling in different cellular compartments participates in the central nervous system (CNS) inflammatory process. We examined CNS inflammation in mice with specific deletion of Act1, a critical component required for IL-17 signaling, in endothelial cells, macrophages and microglia, and neuroectoderm (neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes). In Act1-deficient mice, Th17 cells showed normal infiltration into the CNS but failed to recruit lymphocytes, neutrophils, and macrophages. Act1 deficiency in endothelial cells or in macrophages and microglia did not substantially impact the development of EAE. However, targeted Act1 deficiency in neuroectoderm-derived CNS-resident cells resulted in markedly reduced severity in EAE. Specifically, Act1-deficient astrocytes showed impaired IL-17-mediated inflammatory gene induction. Thus, astroctyes are critical in IL-17-Act1-mediated leukocyte recruitment during autoimmune-induced inflammation of the CNS.	Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a prototypic autoimmune disease characterized by the presence of pathogenic autoantibodies associated with polyclonal B cell hyperreactivity. Previous study reported that autophagy-related gene Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) was likely a susceptible gene for SLE. However, the pathogenic function of LRRK2 in SLE is undefined. Using quantitative PCR, we compared the expression levels of LRRK2 in B cells between SLE patients and healthy controls. The expression levels of LRRK2 in in vitro induced CD19<sup>hi</sup> B cells and naïve B cells were compared as well based on RNA-seq assay. A pristane-induced lupus-like mouse model was used to explore the effects of LRRK2 on the development of SLE. IgG level, B cell subsets in the spleens and bone marrows and pathological features in the kidneys were compared between wildtype (WT) and Lrrk2<sup>-/-</sup> littermates. It was obvious that LRRK2 expression was dramatically up-regulated in primary B cells from SLE patients compared to those from healthy controls, as well as in activated CD19<sup>hi</sup> B cells. More significantly, LRRK2 expression in B cells was positively correlated with system lupus erythematosus disease activity index (SLEDAI), an indicator for disease severity, and serum IgG levels in SLE patients. Negative correlations were observed between LRRK2 expression and serum C3 or C4 levels, two clinical features associated with SLE-related nephritis. LRRK2 deficiency reduced the death rate of pristane treated mice. Decreased levels of total IgG and autoantibody were detected in the serum with less deposition of immune complexes and attenuated pathological symptoms in the kidneys of Lrrk2<sup>-/-</sup> mice. Consistent with the reduction in IgG production, the percentages of germinal center B cells and plasma cells decreased significantly as well with LRRK2 deficiency. Our study demonstrates that LRRK2 expression is upregulated in B cells from SLE patients with strong correlations to disease severity. LRRK2 deficiency largely attenuates the pathogenic progress of lupus-like features in pristane-induced mice. This is probably achieved through affecting B cell terminal differentiation and subsequent immunoglobulin production.	NLRP3 inflammasome plays a critical spatiotemporal role in the pathogenesis of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). This study reports a mechanistic insight into noncanonical NLRP3 inflammasome activation in microglia for the effector stage of EAE. Microglia-specific deficiency of ASC (apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing a C-terminal caspase-activation and recruitment [CARD] domain) attenuated T cell expansion and neutrophil recruitment during EAE pathogenesis. Mechanistically, TLR stimulation led to IRAKM-caspase-8-ASC complex formation, resulting in the activation of caspase-8 and IL-1β release in microglia. Noncanonical inflammasome-derived IL-1β produced by microglia in the CNS helped to expand the microglia population in an autocrine manner and amplified the production of inflammatory cytokines/chemokines. Furthermore, active caspase-8 was markedly increased in the microglia in the brain tissue from patients with multiple sclerosis. Taken together, our study suggests that microglia-derived IL-1β via noncanonical caspase-8-dependent inflammasome is necessary for microglia to exert their pathogenic role during CNS inflammation.	Expression of inflammatory genes is determined in part by post-transcriptional regulation of mRNA metabolism but how stimulus- and transcript-dependent nuclear export influence is poorly understood. Here, we report a novel pathway in which LPS/TLR4 engagement promotes nuclear localization of IRAK2 to facilitate nuclear export of a specific subset of inflammation-related mRNAs for translation in murine macrophages. IRAK2 kinase activity is required for LPS-induced RanBP2-mediated IRAK2 sumoylation and subsequent nuclear translocation. Array analysis showed that an SRSF1-binding motif is enriched in mRNAs dependent on IRAK2 for nuclear export. Nuclear IRAK2 phosphorylates SRSF1 to reduce its binding to target mRNAs, which promotes the RNA binding of the nuclear export adaptor ALYREF and nuclear export receptor Nxf1 loading for the export of the mRNAs. In summary, LPS activates a nuclear function of IRAK2 that facilitates the assembly of nuclear export machinery to export selected inflammatory mRNAs to the cytoplasm for translation.
Karnik, Sadashiva	Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences	30616822	30608150	29287092	29195045	28194766	27512731	26484771	26460884	26315714	25068582	Maintenance of normal blood pressure under conditions of drug treatment is a measure of system-wide neuro-hormonal controls and electrolyte/fluid volume homeostasis in the body. With increased interest in designing and evaluating novel drugs that may functionally select or allosterically modulate specific GPCR signaling pathways, techniques that allow us to measure acute and long-term effects on blood pressure are very important. Therefore, this chapter describes techniques to measure acute and long-term impact of novel GPCR ligands on blood pressure regulation. We will use the angiotensin type 1 receptor, a powerful blood pressure regulating GPCR, in detailing the methodology. Normal blood pressure maintenance depends upon dynamic modulation of angiotensin type 1 receptor activity by the hormone peptide angiotensin II. Chronic activation of angiotensin type 1 receptor creates hypertension and related cardiovascular disease states which are treated with angiotensin type 1 receptor blockers (ARBs). Thus, a prototype for evaluation of blood pressure control under experimental evaluation of novel drugs.	We present a succession of structural changes involved in hormone peptide activation of a prototypical GPCR. Microsecond molecular dynamics simulation generated conformational ensembles reveal propagation of structural changes through key &quot;microswitches&quot; within human AT1R bound to native hormone. The endocrine octa-peptide angiotensin II (AngII) activates AT1R signaling in our bodies which maintains physiological blood pressure, electrolyte balance, and cardiovascular homeostasis. Excessive AT1R activation is associated with pathogenesis of hypertension and cardiovascular diseases which are treated by sartan drugs. The mechanism of AT1R inhibition by sartans has been elucidated by 2.8 Å X-ray structures, mutagenesis, and computational analyses. Yet, the mechanism of AT1R activation by AngII is unclear. The current study delineates an activation scheme initiated by AngII binding. A van der Waals &quot;grasp&quot; interaction between Phe8<sup>AngII</sup> with Ile288<sup>7.39</sup> in AT1R induced mechanical strain pulling Tyr292<sup>7.43</sup> and breakage of critical interhelical H-bonds, first between Tyr292<sup>7.43</sup> and Val108<sup>3.32</sup> and second between Asn111<sup>3.35</sup> and Asn295<sup>7.46</sup>. Subsequently changes are observed in conserved microswitches DRY<sup>TM3</sup>, Yx7K(R)<sup>TM5</sup>, CWxP<sup>TM6</sup>, and NPxxY<sup>TM7</sup> in AT1R. Activating the microswitches in the intracellular region of AT1R may trigger formation of the G-protein binding pocket as well as exposure of helix-8 to cytoplasm. Thus, the active-like conformation of AT1R is initiated by the van der Waals interaction of Phe8<sup>AngII</sup> with Ile288<sup>7.39</sup>, followed by systematic reorganization of critical interhelical H-bonds and activation of microswitches.	Perspectives on whether the functions of MAS, a G protein-coupled receptor, are beneficial or deleterious in the heart remain controversial. MAS gene knockout reduces coronary vasodilatation leading to ischemic injury. G protein signaling activated by MAS has been implicated in progression of adaptive cardiac hypertrophy to heart failure and fibrosis. In the present study, we observed increased expression of MAS, connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) and collagen genes in failing (HF) human heart samples when compared to non-failing (NF). Expression levels of MAS are correlated with CTGF in HF and NF leading to our hypothesis that MAS controls CTGF production and the ensuing expression of collagen genes. In support of this hypothesis we show that the non-peptide MAS agonist AR234960 increases both mRNA and protein levels of CTGF via ERK1/2 signaling in HEK293-MAS cells and adult human cardiac fibroblasts. MAS-mediated CTGF expression can be specifically blocked by MAS inverse agonist AR244555 and also by MEK1 inhibition. Expression of CTGF gene was essential for MAS-mediated up-regulation of different collagen subtype genes in HEK293-MAS cells and human cardiac fibroblasts. Knockdown of CTGF by RNAi disrupted collagen gene regulation by the MAS-agonist. Our data indicate that CTGF mediates the profibrotic effects of MAS in cardiac fibroblasts. Blocking MAS-CTGF-collagen pathway should be considered for pharmacological intervention for HF.	Crystal structures of the human angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AT1R) complex with the antihypertensive agent ZD7155 (PDB id: 4YAY ) and the blood pressure medication Benicar (PDB id: 4ZUD ) showed that binding poses of both antagonists are similar. This finding implies that clinically used angiotensin receptor blocking (ARB) drugs may interact in a similar fashion. However, clinically observed differences in pharmacological and therapeutic efficacies of ARBs lead to the question of whether the dynamic interactions of AT1R with ARBs vary. To address this, we performed induced-fit docking (IFD) of eight clinically used ARBs to AT1R followed by 200 ns molecular dynamic (MD) simulation. The experimental Ki values for ARBs correlated remarkably well with calculated free energy with R<sup>2</sup> = 0.95 and 0.70 for AT1R-ARB models generated respectively by IFD and MD simulation. The eight ARB-AT1R complexes share a common set of binding residues. In addition, MD simulation results validated by mutagenesis data discovered distinctive spatiotemporal interactions that display unique bonding between an individual ARB and AT1R. These findings provide a reasonably broader picture reconciling the structure-based observations with clinical studies reporting efficacy variations for ARBs. The unique differences unraveled for ARBs in this study will be useful for structure-based design of the next generation of more potent and selective ARBs.	Angiotensins are a group of hormonal peptides and include angiotensin II and angiotensin 1-7 produced by the renin angiotensin system. The biology, pharmacology and biochemistry of the receptors for angiotensins were extensively reviewed recently. In the review, the receptor nomenclature committee was not emphatic on designating MAS1 as the angiotensin 1-7 receptor on the basis of lack of classical G protein signalling and desensitization in response to angiotensin 1-7, as well as a lack of consensus on confirmatory ligand pharmacological analyses. A review of recent publications (2013-2016) on the rapidly progressing research on angiotensin 1-7 revealed that MAS1 and two additional receptors can function as 'angiotensin 1-7 receptors', and this deserves further consideration. In this review we have summarized the information on angiotensin 1-7 receptors and their crosstalk with classical angiotensin II receptors in the context of the functions of the renin angiotensin system. It was concluded that the receptors for angiotensin II and angiotensin 1-7 make up a sophisticated cross-regulated signalling network that modulates the endogenous protective and pathogenic facets of the renin angiotensin system.	Angiotensinogen - a serpin family protein predominantly produced by the liver is systematically processed by proteases of the Renin Angiotensin system (RAS) generating hormone peptides. Specific cell surface receptors for at least three distinct angiotensin peptides produce distinct cellular signals that regulate system-wide physiological response to RAS. Two well characterized receptors are angiotensin type 1 receptor (AT1 receptor) and type 2 receptor (AT2 receptor). They respond to the octapeptide hormone angiotensin II. The oncogene product MAS is a putative receptor for Ang (1-7). While these are G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), the in vivo angiotensin IV binding sites may be type 2 transmembrane proteins. These four receptors together regulate cardiovascular, hemodynamic, neurological, renal, and endothelial functions; as well as cell proliferation, survival, matrix-cell interactions and inflammation. Angiotensin receptors are important therapeutic targets for several diseases. Thus, researchers and pharmaceutical companies are focusing on drugs targeting AT1 receptor than AT2 receptor, MAS and AngIV binding sites. AT1 receptor blockers are the cornerstone of current treatment for hypertension, heart failure, renal failure and many types of vascular diseases including atherosclerosis, aortic aneurism and Marfan syndrome.	Propagation of signals from G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) in cells is primarily mediated by protein-protein interactions. MAS is a GPCR that was initially discovered as an oncogene and is now known to play an important role in cardiovascular physiology. Current literature suggests that MAS interacts with common heterotrimeric G-proteins, but MAS interaction with proteins which might mediate G protein-independent or atypical signaling is unknown. In this study we hypothesized that MAS C-terminal tail (Ct) is a major determinant of receptor-scaffold protein interactions mediating MAS signaling. Mass-spectrometry based proteomic analysis was used to comprehensively identify the proteins that interact with MAS Ct comprising the PDZ-binding motif (PDZ-BM). We identified both PDZ and non-PDZ proteins from human embryonic kidney cell line, mouse atrial cardiomyocyte cell line and human heart tissue to interact specifically with MAS Ct. For the first time our study provides a panel of PDZ and other proteins that potentially interact with MAS with high significance. A 'cardiac-specific finger print' of MAS interacting PDZ proteins was identified which includes DLG1, MAGI1 and SNTA. Cell based experiments with wild-type and mutant MAS lacking the PDZ-BM validated MAS interaction with PDZ proteins DLG1 and TJP2. Bioinformatics analysis suggested well-known multi-protein scaffold complexes involved in nitric oxide signaling (NOS), cell-cell signaling of neuromuscular junctions, synapses and epithelial cells. Majority of these protein hits were predicted to be part of disease categories comprising cancers and malignant tumors. We propose a 'MAS-signalosome' model to stimulate further research in understanding the molecular mechanism of MAS function. Identifying hierarchy of interactions of 'signalosome' components with MAS will be a necessary step in future to fully understand the physiological and pathological functions of this enigmatic receptor. 	Although interaction of a few G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) with Filamin A, a key actin cross-linking and biomechanical signal transducer protein, has been observed, a comprehensive structure-function analysis of this interaction is lacking. Through a systematic sequence-based analysis, we found that a conserved filamin binding motif is present in the cytoplasmic domains of &gt;20% of the 824 GPCRs encoded in the human genome. Direct high-affinity interaction of filamin binding motif peptides of select GPCRs with the Ig domain of Filamin A was confirmed by nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy and isothermal titration calorimetric experiments. Engagement of the filamin binding motif with the Filamin A Ig domain induced the phosphorylation of filamin by protein kinase A in vitro. In transfected cells, agonist activation as well as constitutive activation of representative GPCRs dramatically elicited recruitment and phosphorylation of cellular Filamin A, a phenomenon long known to be crucial for regulating the structure and dynamics of the cytoskeleton. Our data suggest a molecular mechanism for direct GPCR-cytoskeleton coupling via filamin. Until now, GPCR signaling to the cytoskeleton was predominantly thought to be indirect, through canonical G protein-mediated signaling cascades involving GTPases, adenylyl cyclases, phospholipases, ion channels, and protein kinases. We propose that the GPCR-induced filamin phosphorylation pathway is a conserved, novel biochemical signaling paradigm. 	The renin angiotensin system (RAS) produced hormone peptides regulate many vital body functions. Dysfunctional signaling by receptors for RAS peptides leads to pathologic states. Nearly half of humanity today would likely benefit from modern drugs targeting these receptors. The receptors for RAS peptides consist of three G-protein-coupled receptors—the angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AT1 receptor), the angiotensin II type 2 receptor (AT2 receptor), the MAS receptor—and a type II trans-membrane zinc protein—the candidate angiotensin IV receptor (AngIV binding site). The prorenin receptor is a relatively new contender for consideration, but is not included here because the role of prorenin receptor as an independent endocrine mediator is presently unclear. The full spectrum of biologic characteristics of these receptors is still evolving, but there is evidence establishing unique roles of each receptor in cardiovascular, hemodynamic, neurologic, renal, and endothelial functions, as well as in cell proliferation, survival, matrix-cell interaction, and inflammation. Therapeutic agents targeted to these receptors are either in active use in clinical intervention of major common diseases or under evaluation for repurposing in many other disorders. Broad-spectrum influence these receptors produce in complex pathophysiological context in our body highlights their role as precise interpreters of distinctive angiotensinergic peptide cues. This review article summarizes findings published in the last 15 years on the structure, pharmacology, signaling, physiology, and disease states related to angiotensin receptors. We also discuss the challenges the pharmacologist presently faces in formally accepting newer members as established angiotensin receptors and emphasize necessary future developments.	MAS is a G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) implicated in multiple physiological processes. Several physiological peptide ligands such as angiotensin-(1-7), angiotensin fragments and neuropeptide FF (NPFF) are reported to act on MAS. Studies of conventional G protein signaling and receptor desensitization upon stimulation of MAS with the peptide ligands are limited so far. Therefore, we systematically analyzed G protein signals activated by the peptide ligands. MAS-selective non-peptide ligands that were previously shown to activate G proteins were used as controls for comparison on a common cell based assay platform. Activation of MAS by the non-peptide agonist (1) increased intracellular calcium and D-myo-inositol-1-phosphate (IP1) levels which are indicative of the activation of classical Gαq-phospholipase C signaling pathways, (2) decreased Gαi mediated cAMP levels and (3) stimulated Gα12-dependent expression of luciferase reporter. In all these assays, MAS exhibited strong constitutive activity that was inhibited by the non-peptide inverse agonist. Further, in the calcium response assay, MAS was resistant to stimulation by a second dose of the non-peptide agonist after the first activation has waned suggesting functional desensitization. In contrast, activation of MAS by the peptide ligand NPFF initiated a rapid rise in intracellular calcium with very weak IP1 accumulation which is unlike classical Gαq-phospholipase C signaling pathway. NPFF only weakly stimulated MAS-mediated activation of Gα12 and Gαi signaling pathways. Furthermore, unlike non-peptide agonist-activated MAS, NPFF-activated MAS could be readily re-stimulated the second time by the agonists. Functional assays with key ligand binding MAS mutants suggest that NPFF and non-peptide ligands bind to overlapping regions. Angiotensin-(1-7) and other angiotensin fragments weakly potentiated an NPFF-like calcium response at non-physiological concentrations (≥100 µM). Overall, our data suggest that peptide ligands induce atypical signaling and functional desensitization of MAS. 
Kattan, Michael	Quantitative Health Sciences	30611011	30385049	30348631	30214921	30003062	29995735	29862238	29610738	29610734	29381462	The early diagnosis of cancer, as one of the major causes of death, is vital for cancerous patients. Diagnosing diseases in general and cancer in particular is a considerable application of data analysis for medical science. However, imbalanced data distribution and imbalanced quality of the majority and minority classes, which lead to misclassification, is a great challenge in this field. Though the samples of the majority class and their proper classification are more important to classifier, cancer is diagnosed by relying on the minority class samples (cancer data class). While the consequence of wrong diagnosis for non-cancerous patients is several additional clinical tests, the cancerous patients pay the price of wrong diagnosis with their lives. As such, studying the class imbalance problem is vital from the medical's perspective. To serve this purpose, a comprehensive study on the consequences of imbalanced data problem is performed in this paper on the data of cancer patients for the first time. In this context, oversampling and under sampling as two main balancing techniques including 18 algorithms are employed. The techniques used in oversampling are ADASYN, ADOMS, AHC, Borderline-SMOTE, ROS, Safe-Level-SMOTE, SMOTE, SMOTE-ENN, SMOTE-TL, SPIDER and SPIDER2, while under sampling techniques are CNN, CNNTL, NCL, OSS, RUS, SBC and TL. To examine the impact of balancers on the performance of classifiers, four classifiers named RIPPER, MLP, KNN, and C4.5 are employed as learners. In addition, 15 cancer data sets from SEER program used for the study are kidney, soft tissue, bladder, rectum, colon, bone, larynx, breast, cervix, prostate, oropharynx, melanoma, thyroid, testis, and lip. The findings of the study are centered on examining the impact of class imbalance on the function of classifiers, a general comparing of the function of pre-processing techniques and classifying all data sets and finally determining the best balancer and classifier for each kind of cancer data set. According to the results, significant improvement is obtained through using balancers. Assessing by AUC, the performance of different classifiers of cancer imbalanced data sets has improved in 90% of the cases after using balancing techniques. To be more precise, Friedman statistical tests are applied and interestingly, each kind of cancer data set responded differently to different balancing techniques and classifiers. Moreover, considering the mean rank of each technique and classifier that were used for data sets, oversampling balancing techniques result in better outcomes than under sampling ones.	Careful assessment of the reasons for discontinuation of active surveillance (AS) is required for men with prostate cancer (PCa). Using Movember's Global Action Plan Prostate Cancer Active Surveillance initiative (GAP3) database, we report on reasons for AS discontinuation. We compared data from 10296 men on AS from 21 centres across 12 countries. Cumulative incidence methods were used to estimate the cumulative incidence rates of AS discontinuation. During 5-yr follow-up, 27.5% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 26.4-28.6%) men showed signs of disease progression, 12.8% (95% CI: 12.0-13.6%) converted to active treatment without evidence of progression, 1.7% (95% CI: 1.5-2.0%) continued to watchful waiting, and 1.7% (95% CI: 1.4-2.1%) died from other causes. Of the 7049 men who remained on AS, 2339 had follow-up for &gt;5yr, 4561 had follow-up for &lt;5yr, and 149 were lost to follow-up. Cumulative incidence of progression was 27.5% (95% CI: 26.4-28.6%) at 5yr and 38.2% (95% CI: 36.7-39.9%) at 10yr. A limitation is that not all centres were included due to limited information on the reason for discontinuation and limited follow-up. Our descriptive analyses of current AS practices worldwide showed that 43.6% of men drop out of AS during 5-yr follow-up, mainly due to signs of disease progression. Improvements in selection tools for AS are thus needed to correctly allocate men with PCa to AS, which will also reduce discontinuation due to conversion to active treatment without evidence of disease progression. Our assessment of a worldwide database of men with prostate cancer (PCa) on active surveillance (AS) shows that 43.6% drop out of AS within 5yr, mainly due to signs of disease progression. Better tools are needed to select and monitor men with PCa as part of AS.	Electronic, personalized clinical decision support tools to optimize glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) screening are lacking. Current screening guidelines are based on simple, categorical rules developed for populations of patients. Although personalized diabetes risk calculators have been created, none are designed to predict current glycemic status using structured data commonly available in electronic health records (EHRs). The goal of this project was to create a mathematical equation for predicting the probability of current elevations in HbA1c (≥5.7%) among patients with no history of hyperglycemia using readily available variables that will allow integration with EHR systems. The reduced model was compared head-to-head with calculators created by Baan and Griffin. Ten-fold cross-validation was used to calculate the bias-adjusted prediction accuracy of the new model. Statistical analyses were performed in R version 3.2.5 (The R Foundation for Statistical Computing) using the rms (Regression Modeling Strategies) package. The final model to predict an elevated HbA1c based on 22,635 patient records contained the following variables in order from most to least importance according to their impact on the discriminating accuracy of the model: age, body mass index, random glucose, race, serum non-high-density lipoprotein, serum total cholesterol, estimated glomerular filtration rate, and smoking status. The new model achieved a concordance statistic of 0.77 which was statistically significantly better than prior models. The model appeared to be well calibrated according to a plot of the predicted probabilities versus the prevalence of the outcome at different probabilities. The calculator created for predicting the probability of having an elevated HbA1c significantly outperformed the existing calculators. The personalized prediction model presented in this paper could improve the efficiency of HbA1c screening initiatives.	A risk calculator paired with a personalized decision aid (RC&amp;DA) may foster shared decision-making in primary care. We assessed the feasibility of using an RC&amp;DA with patients in a primary care outpatient clinic and patients' experiences regarding communication and decision-making. This pilot study was conducted with 15 patients of 3 primary care physicians at a clinic within a tertiary medical center. An atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) risk calculator was used to generate a personalized RC&amp;DA that displayed absolute 10-year risk information as an icon array graphic. Patient perceptions of utility of the RC&amp;DA, preferences for decision-making, and uncertainty with risk reduction decisions were measured with a semi-structured interview. Patients reported that the RC&amp;DA was easy to understand and knowledge gained was useful to modify their ASCVD risk. Patients used the RC&amp;DA to make decisions and reported low uncertainty with those decisions. Our findings demonstrate the feasibility of, and positive patient experiences related to using, an RC&amp;DA to facilitate shared decision-making between physicians and patients in an outpatient primary care setting.	As prostate cancer (PCa) screening decisions often occur in outpatient primary care, a brief tool to help the PCa screening conversation in busy clinic settings is needed. A previously created 9-item tool to aid PCa screening discussions was tested in five diverse primary care clinics. Fifteen providers were recruited to use the tool for 4 weeks, and the tool was revised based upon feedback. The providers then used the tool with a convenience sample of patients during routine clinic visits. Pre- and post-visit surveys were administered to assess patients' knowledge of the option to be screened for PCa and of specific factors to consider in the decision. McNemar's and Stuart-Maxwell tests were used to compare pre-and post-survey responses. 14 of 15 providers completed feedback surveys and had positive responses to the tool. All 15 providers then tested the tool on 95 men aged 40-69 at the five clinics with 2-10 patients each. The proportion of patients who strongly agreed that they had the option to choose to screen for PCa increased from 57 to 72% (p = 0.018) from the pre- to post-survey, that there are factors in the personal or family history that may affect PCa risk from 34 to 47% (p = 0.012), and that their opinions about possible side effects of treatment for PCa should be considered in the decision from 47 to 61% (p = 0.009). A brief conversation tool for the PCa screening discussion was well received in busy primary-care settings and improved patients' knowledge about the screening decision.	To develop statistical models predicting recurrent pelvic organ prolapse, surgical complications, and change in health status 12 months after apical prolapse surgery. Logistic regression models were developed using a combined cohort from three randomized trials and two prospective cohort studies from 1,301 participants enrolled in surgical studies conducted by the Pelvic Floor Disorders Network. Composite recurrent prolapse was defined as prolapse beyond the hymen; the presence of bothersome bulge symptoms; or prolapse reoperation or retreatment within 12 months after surgery. Complications were defined as any serious adverse event or Dindo grade III complication within 12 months of surgery. Significant change in health status was defined as a minimum important change of SF-6D utility score (±0.035 points) from baseline. Thirty-two candidate risk factors were considered for each model and model accuracy was measured using concordance indices. All indices were internally validated using 1,000 bootstrap resamples to correct for bias. The models accurately predicted composite recurrent prolapse (concordance index=0.72, 95% CI 0.69-0.76), bothersome vaginal bulge (concordance index=0.73, 95% CI 0.68-0.77), prolapse beyond the hymen (concordance index=0.74, 95% CI 0.70-0.77), serious adverse event (concordance index=0.60, 95% CI 0.56-0.64), Dindo grade III or greater complication (concordance index=0.62, 95% CI 0.58-0.66), and health status improvement (concordance index=0.64, 95% CI 0.62-0.67) or worsening (concordance index=0.63, 95% CI 0.60-0.67). Calibration curves demonstrated all models were accurate through clinically useful predicted probabilities. These prediction models are able to provide accurate and discriminating estimates of prolapse recurrence, complications, and health status 12 months after prolapse surgery.	Mandated assessment of medical personnel by comparing individual performance averages to external targets is standard practice in many health care systems. This method of assessment uses only raw or adjusted averages without considering the associated variation. Failure to correctly incorporate variation in the assessment of medical personnel results in evaluations which are neither accurate nor fair with respect to assessing personnel performance. Accepted statistical methods for process evaluation and quality control, including regression, control charts, and adjusted means comparisons will be used to analyze hospital length of stay (LOS) patient data for the period between January and October 2010 for 12 physicians in the Cardiothoracic Surgery service line at the Cleveland Clinic. The analysis and interpretation of physician performance data using both targets and tolerances results in physician performance ratings which differ significantly from performance ratings based only on targets. Failure to include variation when assessing medical personnel performance results in a system of ranking, rewarding, and punishing based primarily on blind chance instead of one based on actual personnel performance.	Risk calculators are online tools developed for use by physicians in clinical settings to predict the risk of a clinical event, and as an aid in personalizing medical decision-making. Cleveland Clinic prediction models are listed at http://rcalc.ccf.org. We illustrate how we used R to create a risk calculator, and demonstrate the ease of using R, RStudio, and a Shiny package.	Many institutions would like to harness their electronic health record (EHR) data for research. However, with many EHR systems, this process is remarkably difficult. We have been using our vast EHR system for research very effectively, with substantial research support and many publications. Herein we share our process and provide recommendations for others wanting to utilize their EHR data for research.	Current prostate cancer risk calculators are limited in impact because only a probability of having prostate cancer is provided. We developed the next generation of prostate cancer risk calculator that incorporates life expectancy in order to better evaluate prostate cancer risk in context to a patient's age and comorbidity. We combined two cohorts to develop the new risk calculator. The first was 5638 subjects who all underwent a prostate biopsy for prostate cancer detection. The second was 979 men diagnosed with prostate cancer with long-term survival data. Two regression models were used to create multivariable nomograms and an online prostate cancer risk calculator was developed. Of the 5638 patients who underwent a prostate biopsy, 629 (11%) were diagnosed with aggressive prostate cancer (Gleason Score 7[4+3] or more). Of the 979 patients who underwent treatment for prostate cancer, the 10-year overall survival (OS) was 49.6% (95% confidence interval [CI] 46.6-52.9). The first multivariable nomogram for cancer risk had a concordance index of 0.74 (95% CI 0.72, 0.76), and the second nomogram to predict survival had a concordance index of 0.71 (95% CI 0.69-0.72). The next-generation prostate cancer risk calculator was developed online and is available at: http://riskcalc.org/ProstateCA_Screen_Tool. We have developed the next-generation prostate cancer risk calculator that incorporates a patient's life expectancy based on age and comorbidity. This approach will better evaluate prostate cancer risk. Future studies examining other populations will be needed for validation.
Krishna, Vijay	Biomedical Engineering	29382935	23083600	20818623	20228785	16989848	20228785	23261655	21637768	21337565	20839856	Pristine titanium dioxide (TiO2) absorbs ultraviolet light and reflects the entire visible spectrum. This optical response of TiO2 has found widespread application as white pigments in paper, paints, pharmaceuticals, foods and plastic industries; and as a UV absorber in cosmetics and photocatalysis. However, pristine TiO2 is considered to be inert under visible light for these applications. Here we show for the first time that a bacterial contaminant (Staphylococcus aureus-a MRSA surrogate) in contact with TiO2 activates its own photocatalytic degradation under visible light. The present study delineates the critical role of visible light absorption by contaminants and electronic interactions with anatase in photocatalytic degradation using two azo dyes (Mordant Orange and Procion Red) that are highly stable because of their aromaticity. An auxiliary light harvester, polyhydroxy fullerenes, was successfully used to accelerate photocatalytic degradation of contaminants. We designed a contaminant-activated, transparent, photocatalytic coating for common indoor surfaces and conducted a 12-month study that proved the efficacy of the coating in killing bacteria and holding bacterial concentrations generally below the benign threshold. Data collected in parallel with this study showed a substantial reduction in the incidence of infections.	NA	NA	Irradiating single-walled carbon nanotubes can lead to heat generation or ignition. These processes could be used in medical and industrial applications, but the poor solvent compatibility and high aspect ratios of nanotubes have led to concerns about safety. Here, we show that certain functionalized fullerenes, including polyhydroxy fullerenes (which are known to be environmentally safe and to have therapeutic properties) are heated or ignited by exposure to low-intensity (&lt;10(2 ) W cm(-2)) continuous-wave laser irradiation. We also show that polyhydroxy fullerenes and other functionalized fullerenes can be transformed into single-walled nanotubes, multiwalled nanotubes and carbon onions without the presence of a catalyst by exposure to low-intensity laser irradiation in an oxygen-free environment. To demonstrate the potential usefulness of these processes in applications, we disrupted animal cells dosed with polyhydroxy fullerenes by exposing them to a near-infrared laser for a few seconds, and also ignited an explosive charge in contact with a particle of carboxy fullerenes.	Fullerenes are known for their unique electronic properties including high electron affinity. Although use of fullerenes for scavenging photo-generated electrons from titanium dioxide particles has been demonstrated, no attempts have been made to utilize the unique properties of fullerenes to increase the efficacy of photocatalysis. The present study has demonstrated that a mixture of water-soluble polyhydroxy fullerenes (PHF) and titanium dioxide (anatase polymorph) enhances photocatalytic degradation of organic dye. The PHF molecules adsorbed to the surface of titanium dioxide due to electrostatic forces, with adsorption density being higher at lower pH values. The surface coverage of titanium dioxide nanoparticles by PHF molecules determined the extent of enhancement, with an optimum dosed weight ratio of PHF to titanium dioxide at 0.001. Hydroxylation and concomitant solubilization of fullerenes allow their unique electronic properties to be harnessed for photocatalysis.	Irradiating single-walled carbon nanotubes can lead to heat generation or ignition. These processes could be used in medical and industrial applications, but the poor solvent compatibility and high aspect ratios of nanotubes have led to concerns about safety. Here, we show that certain functionalized fullerenes, including polyhydroxy fullerenes (which are known to be environmentally safe and to have therapeutic properties) are heated or ignited by exposure to low-intensity (&lt;10(2 ) W cm(-2)) continuous-wave laser irradiation. We also show that polyhydroxy fullerenes and other functionalized fullerenes can be transformed into single-walled nanotubes, multiwalled nanotubes and carbon onions without the presence of a catalyst by exposure to low-intensity laser irradiation in an oxygen-free environment. To demonstrate the potential usefulness of these processes in applications, we disrupted animal cells dosed with polyhydroxy fullerenes by exposing them to a near-infrared laser for a few seconds, and also ignited an explosive charge in contact with a particle of carboxy fullerenes.	Accurately measuring the volume of tissue damage in experimental lesion models is crucial to adequately control for the extent and location of the lesion, variables that can dramatically bias the outcome of preclinical studies. Many of the current commonly used techniques for this assessment, such as measuring the lesion volume with primitive software macros and plotting the lesion location manually using atlases, are time-consuming and offer limited precision. Here we present an easy to use semi-automated computational method for determining lesion volume and location, designed to increase precision and reduce the manual labor required. We compared this novel method to currently used methods and demonstrate that this tool is comparable or superior to current techniques in terms of precision and has distinct advantages with respect to user interface, labor intensiveness and quality of data presentation.	Recent toxicological studies on carbon nanomaterials, including fullerenes, have led to concerns about their safety. Functionalized fullerenes, such as polyhydroxy fullerenes (PHF, fullerols, or fullerenols), have attracted particular attention due to their water solubility and toxicity. Here, we report surprisingly beneficial and/or specific effects of PHF on model organisms representing four kingdoms, including the green algae Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata, the plant Arabidopsis thaliana, the fungus Aspergillus niger, and the invertebrate Ceriodaphnia dubia. The results showed that PHF had no acute or chronic negative effects on the freshwater organisms. Conversely, PHF could surprisingly increase the algal culture density over controls at higher concentrations (i.e., 72% increase by 1 and 5 mg/L of PHF) and extend the lifespan and stimulate the reproduction of Daphnia (e.g. about 38% by 20 mg/L of PHF). We also show that at certain PHF concentrations fungal growth can be enhanced and Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings exhibit longer hypocotyls, while other complex physiological processes remain unaffected. These findings may open new research fields in the potential applications of PHF, e.g., in biofuel production and aquaculture. These results will form the basis of further research into the mechanisms of growth stimulation and life extension by PHF.	Approaches for breast cancer treatment are invasive, disfiguring, have significant side-effects, and are not always curative. Nanotechnology is an emerging area which is focused on engineering of materials &lt;100 × 10(-9) m. There is significant promise for advancing nanotechnology to improve breast cancer diagnosis and treatment including non-invasive therapy, monitoring response to therapy, advanced imaging, treatment of metastatic disease, and improved nodal staging. Current approaches and important future directions are discussed.	Copper species coated silica nanoparticles (CuOXS) were synthesized for odor removal application. Coating with copper increased the capacity of silica nanoparticles for eliminating a model odor-ethyl mercaptan. Surface area, pore size distribution, and electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy analyses indicated that, at lower copper concentrations, copper species preferentially adsorb in 20 Å pores of silica. These copper species in a dispersed state are effective in catalytic removal of ethyl mercaptan. The best performance of copper-coated silica nanoparticles was achieved at a copper concentration of 3 wt %, at which all 20 Å nanopores were filled with isolated copper species. At higher copper loading, copper species are present as clusters on silica surfaces, which were found to be less effective in removing ethyl mercaptan. Gas chromatography experiments were carried out to verify catalytic conversion of ethyl mercaptan to diethyl disulfide by CuOXS particles. The present study suggests that the nature of the copper species and their site of adsorption, as well as state of dispersion, are important parameters to be considered for catalytic removal of sulfur-containing compounds. These parameters are critical for designing high-performance catalytic copper-coated silica nanoparticles for applications such as deodorization, removal of sulfur compounds from crude oil, hydrogenation, and antimicrobial activity.
Labhasetwar, Vinod	Biomedical Engineering	30940690	30930216	29947019	28299721	27090164	26735970	26439800	26343846	26024446	26000961	Poor cellular uptake, rapid degradation in the presence of serum, and inefficient transfection are some of the major barriers in achieving therapeutic efficacy of naked small interfering RNAs (siRNAs). We investigated the efficacy of the polyplex formulated using our synthesized polymer, polyethylene glycol (PEG)-modified l-arginine oligo(-alkylaminosiloxane) that is grafted with poly(ethyleneimine) (PEI) for siRNA delivery. We hypothesized that the polyplex formulated using the polymer with a balanced composition of PEI for siRNA condensation and its protection, PEG for polyplex stability and to minimize the PEI-associated toxicity, and with arginine facilitating cellular uptake would overcome the aforementioned issues with siRNA delivery. We tested our hypothesis using antiluciferase siRNA in luciferase-expressing metastatic breast cancer cells (MDA-MB-231-Luc-D3H2LN) and anti-ABCB1 siRNA against an efflux membrane protein, ABCB1, in doxorubicin (DOX)-resistant breast cancer cells (MCF-7/Adr). The results demonstrated that the polyplex at an optimal nucleotide/polymer ratio is stable in the presence of excess polyanions, has no cellular toxicity, and protects siRNA from RNase degradation. Transfection of MDA-MB-231-Luc-D3H2LN cells with antiluciferase siRNA polyplex showed almost complete knockdown of luciferase expression. In MCF-7/Adr cells, transfection with anti-ABCB1 siRNA effectively downregulated its target efflux protein, ABCB1; increased cellular uptake of DOX; and enhanced its cytotoxic effect. However, the cotreatment did not completely overcome drug resistance, suggesting that further optimization is needed and/or a mechanism(s) other than the efflux protein ABCB1 may be involved in drug resistance. In conclusion, our polyplex is effective for siRNA delivery and can be explored for different therapeutic applications.	In spinal cord injury (SCI), timely therapeutic intervention is critical to inhibit the post-injury rapidly progressing degeneration of spinal cord. Towards that objective, we determined the accessibility of intravenously administered biodegradable nanoparticles (NPs) as a drug delivery system to the lesion site in rat and pig contusion models of SCI. Poly (d,l-lactide co-glycolide, PLGA)-based NPs loaded with a near-infrared dye as a marker for NPs were used. To analyze and quantify localization of NPs to the lesion site, we mapped the entire spinal cord, segment-by-segment, for the signal count. Our objectives were to determine the NP dose effect and duration of retention of NPs at the lesion site, and the time window post-SCI within which NPs localize at the lesion site. We hypothesized that breakdown of the blood-spinal cord barrier following contusion injury could lead to more specific localization of NPs at the lesion site. The mapping data showed a dose-dependent increase and significantly greater localization of NPs at the lesion site than in the remaining uninjured segment of the spinal cord. Further, NPs were seen to be retained at the lesion site for more than a week. With delayed post-SCI administration, localization of NPs at the lesion site was reduced but still localize even at four weeks post-injury administration. Interestingly, in uninjured animals (sham control), greater accumulation of NPs was seen in the thoracic and lumbar enlargement regions of the spinal cord, which in animals with SCI changed to the lesion site, indicating drastic post-injury hemodynamic changes in the spinal cord. Similar to the rat results, pig contusion model of SCI showed greater NP localization at the lesion site. In conclusion, NPs could potentially be explored as a carrier for delivery of therapeutics to the lesion site to minimize the impact of post-SCI response.	Epigenetic modifications (e.g., DNA methylation or histone deacetylation) are commonly implicated in cancer chemoresistance. We previously showed that pretreating resistant MCF-7/ADR breast cancer cells with a demethylating agent (5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (DAC)) or with an inhibitor of histone deacetylase (suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (SAHA)) sensitized resistant cells to doxorubicin (DOX) treatment. However, even with increasing doses of DOX, a fraction of resistant cells remained nonresponsive to this pretreatment (~ 25% pretreated with DAC, ~ 45% with SAHA). We hypothesized that pretreating resistant cells with a combination of epigenetic drugs (DAC + SAHA) could more effectively overcome drug resistance. We postulated that delivery of epigenetic drugs encapsulated in biodegradable nanogels (NGs) would further enhance their efficacy. MCF-7/ADR cells were first treated with a single drug vs. a combination of epigenetic drugs, either as solutions or encapsulated in NGs, then subjected to DOX, either in solution or in NGs. Antiproliferative data showed that pretreatment with epigenetic drugs in NGs, then with DOX in NGs, was most effective in overcoming resistance; this treatment inhibited cell growth by &gt; 90%, even at low doses of DOX. Cell cycle analysis showed that a major fraction of cells treated with a cocktail of epigenetic drugs + DOX, all in NG formulations, remained in the G2/M cell cycle arrest phase for a prolonged period. The mechanism of better efficacy of epigenetic drugs in NGs could be attributed to their sustained effect. A similar strategy could be developed for other cancer cells in which drug resistance is due to epigenetic modifications.	Titanium dioxide nanoparticles (TiO2NPs) are used in sunscreen products to protect the skin from the sun's ultraviolet rays. However, following exposure to sunlight, the photocatalytic activity of TiO2NPs can produce an excess of reactive oxygen species (ROS), causing skin cell damage, triggering an inflammatory response. In zebrafish model, we evaluated how well Pro-NP™ (biodegradable NPs containing superoxide dismutase and catalase) could protect them from TiO2NP-induced photo-oxidative stress. We hypothesized that the antioxidant properties of Pro-NP™ would protect zebrafish embryos from the phototoxic effects of TiO2NPs, improving overall survival and growth. Dechorionated embryos were treated with TiO2NPs alone or co-treated with Pro-NP™, and then exposed to simulated sunlight. Pro-NP™ by itself caused no toxicity; however, for embryos exposed to 100 μg/ml TiO2NPs, zebrafish survival was reduced to ∼40% and at 500 μg/ml to ∼10%. In contrast, at 100 μg/ml TiO2NP, co-treatment with Pro-NP™ increased zebrafish survival in a dose-dependent manner. Co-treatment also improved percent of embryos hatching and resulted in normal growth of zebrafish. On the other hand, embryos treated with TiO2NPs alone developed deformities, had reduced pigmentation, and showed severely truncated growth. Pro-NP™ afforded a greater level of protection against TiO2NP-induced phototoxicity than other antioxidants (vitamin E or N-acetylcysteine) commonly used in topical skin care formulations. We conclude that Pro-NP™ exert significant protective effects against TiO2NP-induced phototoxicity and could be developed as a safe, effective skin care product, used alone or in combination with sunscreen products to protect the skin from sun's UV radiation.	Advanced-stage prostate cancer usually metastasizes to bone and is untreatable due to poor biodistribution of intravenously administered anticancer drugs to bone. In this study, we modulated the surface charge/composition of biodegradable nanoparticles (NPs) to sustain their blood circulation time and made them small enough to extravasate through the openings of the bone's sinusoidal capillaries and thus localize into marrow. NPs with a neutral surface charge, achieved by modulating the NP surface-associated emulsifier composition, were more effective at localizing to bone marrow than NPs with a cationic or anionic surface charge. These small neutral NPs (~150nm vs. the more usual ~320nm) were also ~7-fold more effective in localizing in bone marrow than large NPs. We hypothesized that NPs that effectively localize to marrow could improve NP-mediated anticancer drug delivery to sites of bone metastasis, thereby inhibiting cancer progression and preventing bone loss. In a PC-3M-luc cell-induced osteolytic intraosseous model of prostate cancer, these small neutral NPs demonstrated greater accumulation in bone within metastatic sites than in normal contralateral bone as well as co-localization with the tumor mass in marrow. Significantly, a single-dose intravenous administration of these small neutral NPs loaded with paclitaxel (PTX-NPs), but not anionic PTX-NPs, slowed the progression of bone metastasis. In addition, neutral PTX-NPs prevented bone loss, whereas animals treated with the rapid-release drug formulation Cremophor EL (PTX-CrEL) or saline (control) showed &gt;50% bone loss. Neutral PTX-NPs did not cause acute toxicity, whereas animals treated with PTX-CrEL experienced weight loss. These results indicate that NPs with appropriate physical and sustained drug-release characteristics could be explored to treat bone metastasis, a significant clinical issue in prostate and other cancers.	Inherent neuronal and circulating progenitor cells play important roles in facilitating neuronal and functional recovery post stroke. However, this endogenous repair process is rather limited, primarily due to unfavorable conditions in the infarcted brain involving reactive oxygen species (ROS)-mediated oxidative stress and inflammation following ischemia/reperfusion injury. We hypothesized that during reperfusion, effective delivery of antioxidants to ischemic brain would create an environment without such oxidative stress and inflammation, thus promoting activation and mobilization of progenitor cells in the infarcted brain. We administered recombinant human tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA) via carotid artery at 3 h post stroke in a thromboembolic rat model, followed by sequential administration of the antioxidants catalase (CAT) and superoxide dismutase (SOD), encapsulated in biodegradable nanoparticles (nano-CAT/SOD). Brains were harvested at 48 h post stroke for immunohistochemical analysis. Ipsilateral brain slices from animals that had received tPA + nano-CAT/SOD showed a widespread distribution of glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive cells (with morphology resembling radial glia-like neural precursor cells) and nestin-positive cells (indicating the presence of immature neurons); such cells were considerably fewer in untreated animals or those treated with tPA alone. Brain sections from animals receiving tPA + nano-CAT/SOD also showed much greater numbers of SOX2- and nestin-positive progenitor cells migrating from subventricular zone of the lateral ventricle and entering the rostral migratory stream than in t-PA alone treated group or untreated control. Further, animals treated with tPA + nano-CAT/SOD showed far fewer caspase-positive cells and fewer neutrophils than did other groups, as well as an inhibition of hippocampal swelling. These results suggest that the antioxidants mitigated the inflammatory response, protected neuronal cells from undergoing apoptosis, and inhibited edema formation by protecting the blood-brain barrier from ROS-mediated reperfusion injury. A longer-term study would enable us to determine if our approach would assist progenitor cells to undergo neurogenesis and to facilitate neurological and functional recovery following stroke and reperfusion injury. 	Cell-membrane lipid composition can greatly influence biophysical properties of cell membranes, affecting various cellular functions. We previously showed that lipid synthesis becomes altered in the membranes of resistant breast cancer cells (MCF-7/ADR); they form a more rigid, hydrophobic lipid monolayer than do sensitive cell membranes (MCF-7). These changes in membrane lipids of resistant cells, attributed to epigenetic aberration, significantly affected drug transport and endocytic function, thus impacting the efficacy of anticancer drugs. The present study's objective was to determine the effects of the epigenetic drug, 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (DAC), delivered in sustained-release nanogels (DAC-NGs), on the composition and biophysical properties of membrane lipids of resistant cells. Resistant and sensitive cells were treated with DAC in solution (DAC-sol) or DAC-NGs, and cell-membrane lipids were isolated and analyzed for lipid composition and biophysical properties. In resistant cells, we found increased formation of cholesterol-sphingomyelin (CHOL-SM) rafts with culturing time, whereas DAC treatment reduced their formation. In general, the effect of DAC-NGs was greater in changing the lipid composition than with DAC-sol. DAC treatment also caused a rise in levels of certain phospholipids and neutral lipids known to increase membrane fluidity, while reducing the levels of certain lipids known to increase membrane rigidity. Isotherm data showed increased lipid membrane fluidity following DAC treatment, attributed to decrease levels of CHOL-SM rafts (lamellar beta [Lβ] structures or ordered gel) and a corresponding increase in lipids that form lamellar alpha-structures (Lα, liquid crystalline phase). Sensitive cells showed marginal or insignificant changes in lipid profile following DAC-treatment, suggesting that epigenetic changes affecting lipid biosynthesis are more specific to resistant cells. Since membrane fluidity plays a major role in drug transport and endocytic function, treatment of resistant cells with epigenetic drugs with altered lipid profile could facilitate anticancer drug transport to overcome acquired drug resistance in a combination therapy. 	Spinal cord injury (SCI) results in devastating neurological and pathological consequences, causing major dysfunction to the motor, sensory, and autonomic systems. The primary traumatic injury to the spinal cord triggers a cascade of acute and chronic degenerative events, leading to further secondary injury. Many therapeutic strategies have been developed to potentially intervene in these progressive neurodegenerative events and minimize secondary damage to the spinal cord. Additionally, significant efforts have been directed toward regenerative therapies that may facilitate neuronal repair and establish connectivity across the injury site. Despite the promise that these approaches have shown in preclinical animal models of SCI, challenges with respect to successful clinical translation still remain. The factors that could have contributed to failure include important biologic and physiologic differences between the preclinical models and the human condition, study designs that do not mirror clinical reality, discrepancies in dosing and the timing of therapeutic interventions, and dose-limiting toxicity. With a better understanding of the pathobiology of events following acute SCI, developing integrated approaches aimed at preventing secondary damage and also facilitating neuroregenerative recovery is possible and hopefully will lead to effective treatments for this devastating injury. The focus of this review is to highlight the progress that has been made in drug therapies and delivery systems, and also cell-based and tissue engineering approaches for SCI. 	Blast-associated shock wave-induced traumatic brain injury (bTBI) remains a persistent risk for armed forces worldwide, yet its detailed pathophysiology remains to be fully investigated. In this study, we have designed and characterized a laboratory-scale shock tube to develop a rodent model of bTBI. Our blast tube, driven by a mixture of oxygen and acetylene, effectively generates blast overpressures of 20-130 psi, with pressure-time profiles similar to those of free-field blast waves. We tested our shock tube for brain injury response to various blast wave conditions in rats. The results show that blast waves cause diffuse vascular brain damage, as determined using a sensitive optical imaging method based on the fluorescence signal of Evans Blue dye extravasation developed in our laboratory. Vascular leakage increased with increasing blast overpressures and mapping of the brain slices for optical signal intensity indicated nonhomogeneous damage to the cerebral vasculature. We confirmed vascular leakage due to disruption in the blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity following blast exposure. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels in the brain also increased with increasing blast pressures and with time post-blast wave exposure. Immunohistochemical analysis of the brain sections analyzed at different time points post blast exposure demonstrated astrocytosis and cell apoptosis, confirming sustained neuronal injury response. The main advantages of our shock-tube design are minimal jet effect and no requirement for specialized equipment or facilities, and effectively generate blast-associated shock waves that are relevant to battle-field conditions. Overall data suggest that increased oxidative stress and BBB disruption could be the crucial factors in the propagation and spread of neuronal degeneration following blast injury. Further studies are required to determine the interplay between increased ROS activity and BBB disruption to develop effective therapeutic strategies that can prevent the resulting cascade of neurodegeneration. 	Neuronal gene therapy potentially offers an effective therapeutic intervention to cure or slow the progression of neurological diseases. However, neuronal cells are difficult to transfect with nonviral vectors, and in vivo their transport across the blood-brain barrier (BBB) is inefficient. We synthesized a series of arginine-rich oligopeptides, grafted with polyethyleneimine (PEI) and modified with a short-chain polyethylene glycol (PEG). We hypothesized that the arginine would enhance cellular uptake and transport of these polyplexes across the BBB, with PEG imparting biocompatibility and &quot;stealth&quot; properties and PEI facilitating DNA condensation and gene transfection. The optimized composition of the polyplexes demonstrated hemocompatibility with red blood cells, causing no lysis or aggregation, and showed significantly better cytocompatibility than PEI in vitro. Polyplexes formulated with luciferase-expressing plasmid DNA could transfect rat primary astrocytes and neurons in vitro. Confocal imaging data showed efficient cellular uptake of DNA and its sustained intracellular retention and nuclear localization with polyplexes. Intravenous administration of the optimized polyplexes in mice led to gene expression in the brain, which upon further immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated gene expression in neurons. In conclusion, we have successfully designed a nonviral vector for in vitro and in vivo neuronal gene delivery. 
Lal, Dennis	Genomic Medicine Institute	30341947	30048611	29473046	28756411	26990884	26789268	26220384	26174448	25950944	24591017	Increasing availability of surgically resected brain tissue from patients with focal epilepsy and focal cortical dysplasia or low-grade glioneuronal tumors has fostered large-scale genetic examination. However, assessment of pathogenicity of germ line and somatic variants remains difficult. Here, we present a state-of-the-art evaluation of reported genes and variants associated with epileptic brain lesions. We critically reevaluated the pathogenicity for all neuropathology-associated variants reported to date in the PubMed and ClinVar databases, including 101 neuropathology-associated missense variants encompassing 11 disease-related genes. We assessed gene variant tolerance and classified all identified missense variants according to guidelines from the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG). We further extended the bioinformatic variant prediction by introducing a novel gene-specific deleteriousness ranking for prediction scores. Application of ACMG guidelines and in silico gene variant tolerance analysis classified only seven of 11 genes to be likely disease-associated according to the reported disease mechanism, whereas 61 (60.4%) of 101 variants of those genes were classified as of uncertain significance, 37 (36.6%) as being likely pathogenic, and 3 (3%) as being pathogenic. We concluded that the majority of neuropathology-associated variants reported to date do not have enough evidence to be classified as pathogenic. Interpretation of lesion-associated variants remains challenging, and application of current ACMG guidelines is recommended for interpretation and prediction.	A genetic informed approach sheds new light on the biology of congenital hydrocephalus (CH), on which previous knowledge of the genetic background is scanty. In this issue, Furey et al. (2018) discover that variants in four genes associated with neurogenesis are implicated in CH.	After the recent publication of the first patients with disease-associated missense variants in the GRIN2D gene, we evaluate the effect of copy number variants (CNVs) overlapping this gene toward the presentation of neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs). We explored ClinVar (number of CNVs = 50,794) and DECIPHER (number of CNVs = 28,085) clinical databases of genomic variations for patients with copy number changes overlapping the GRIN2D gene at the 19q13.33 locus and evaluated their respective phenotype alongside their frequency, gene content, and expression, with publicly available reference databases. We identified 11 patients with microduplications at the 19q13.33 locus. The majority of CNVs arose de novo, and comparable CNVs are not present in control databases. All patients were reported to have NDDs and dysmorphic features as the most common clinical phenotype (N = 8/11), followed by seizures (N = 6/11) and intellectual disability (N = 5/11). All duplications shared a consensus region of 405 kb overlapping 13 genes. After screening for duplication tolerance in control populations, positive gene brain expression, and gene dosage sensitivity analysis, we highlight 4 genes for future evaluation: CARD8, C19orf68, KDELR1, and GRIN2D, which are promising candidates for disease causality. Furthermore, investigation of the literature especially supports GRIN2D as the best candidate gene. Our study presents dup19q13.33 as a novel duplication syndrome locus associated with NDDs. CARD8, C19orf68, KDELR1, and GRIN2D are promising candidates for functional follow-up.	Microdeletions are known to confer risk to epilepsy, particularly at genomic rearrangement 'hotspot' loci. However, microdeletion burden not overlapping these regions or within different epilepsy subtypes has not been ascertained. To decipher the role of microdeletions outside hotspots loci and risk assessment by epilepsy subtype. We assessed the burden, frequency and genomic content of rare, large microdeletions found in a previously published cohort of 1366 patients with genetic generalised epilepsy (GGE) in addition to two sets of additional unpublished genome-wide microdeletions found in 281 patients with rolandic epilepsy (RE) and 807 patients with adult focal epilepsy (AFE), totalling 2454 cases. Microdeletions were assessed in a combined and subtype-specific approaches against 6746 controls. When hotspots are considered, we detected an enrichment of microdeletions in the combined epilepsy analysis (adjusted p=1.06×10<sup>-6</sup>,OR 1.89, 95% CI 1.51 to 2.35). Epilepsy subtype-specific analyses showed that hotspot microdeletions in the GGE subgroup contribute most of the overall signal (adjusted p=9.79×10<sup>-12</sup>, OR 7.45, 95% CI 4.20-13.5). Outside hotspots , microdeletions were enriched in the GGE cohort for neurodevelopmental genes (adjusted p=9.13×10<sup>-3</sup>,OR 2.85, 95% CI 1.62-4.94). No additional signal was observed for RE and AFE. Still, gene-content analysis identified known (NRXN1, RBFOX1 and PCDH7) and novel (LOC102723362) candidate genes across epilepsy subtypes that were not deleted in controls. Our results show a heterogeneous effect of recurrent and non-recurrent microdeletions as part of the genetic architecture of GGE and a minor contribution in the aetiology of RE and AFE.	The SCN1A gene, coding for the voltage-gated Na+ channel alpha subunit NaV1.1, is the clinically most relevant epilepsy gene. With the advent of high-throughput next-generation sequencing, clinical laboratories are generating an ever-increasing catalogue of SCN1A variants. Variants are more likely to be classified as pathogenic if they have already been identified previously in a patient with epilepsy. Here, we critically re-evaluate the pathogenicity of this class of variants in a cohort of patients with common epilepsy syndromes and subsequently ask whether a significant fraction of benign variants have been misclassified as pathogenic. We screened a discovery cohort of 448 patients with a broad range of common genetic epilepsies and 734 controls for previously reported SCN1A mutations that were assumed to be disease causing. We re-evaluated the evidence for pathogenicity of the identified variants using in silico predictions, segregation, original reports, available functional data and assessment of allele frequencies in healthy individuals as well as in a follow up cohort of 777 patients. We identified 8 known missense mutations, previously reported as pathogenic, in a total of 17 unrelated epilepsy patients (17/448; 3.80%). Our re-evaluation indicates that 7 out of these 8 variants (p.R27T; p.R28C; p.R542Q; p.R604H; p.T1250M; p.E1308D; p.R1928G; NP_001159435.1) are not pathogenic. Only the p.T1174S mutation may be considered as a genetic risk factor for epilepsy of small effect size based on the enrichment in patients (P = 6.60 x 10-4; OR = 0.32, fishers exact test), previous functional studies but incomplete penetrance. Thus, incorporation of previous studies in genetic counseling of SCN1A sequencing results is challenging and may produce incorrect conclusions.	Massively parallel sequencing of whole genomes and exomes has facilitated a direct assessment of causative genetic variation, now enabling the identification of genetic factors involved in rare diseases (RD) with Mendelian inheritance patterns on an almost routine basis. Here, we describe the illustrative case of a single consanguineous family where this strategy suffered from the difficulty to distinguish between two etiologically distinct disorders, namely the co-occurrence of hereditary hypophosphatemic rickets (HRR) and congenital myopathies (CM), by their phenotypic manifestation alone. We used parametric linkage analysis, homozygosity mapping and whole exome-sequencing to identify mutations underlying HRR and CM. We also present an approximate approach for assessing the probability of co-occurrence of two unlinked recessive RD in a single family as a function of the degree of consanguinity and the frequency of the disease-causing alleles. Linkage analysis and homozygosity mapping yielded elusive results when assuming a single RD, but whole-exome sequencing helped to identify two mutations in two genes, namely SLC34A3 and SEPN1, that segregated independently in this family and that have previously been linked to two etiologically different diseases. We assess the increase in chance co-occurrence of rare diseases due to consanguinity, i.e. under circumstances that generally favor linkage mapping of recessive disease, and show that this probability can increase by several orders of magnitudes. We conclude that such potential co-occurrence represents an underestimated risk when analyzing rare or undefined diseases in consanguineous families and should be given more consideration in the clinical and genetic evaluation. 	Recently, mutations and deletions in the GRIN2A gene have been identified to predispose to benign and severe idiopathic focal epilepsies (IFE), revealing a higher incidence of GRIN2A alterations among the more severe phenotypes. This study aimed to explore the phenotypic boundaries of GRIN2A mutations by investigating patients with the two most common epilepsy syndromes: (i) idiopathic generalized epilepsy (IGE) and (ii) temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). Whole exome sequencing data of 238 patients with IGE as well as Sanger sequencing of 84 patients with TLE were evaluated for GRIN2A sequence alterations. Two additional independent cohorts comprising 1469 IGE and 330 TLE patients were screened for structural deletions (&gt;40kb) involving GRIN2A. Apart from a presumably benign, non-segregating variant in a patient with juvenile absence epilepsy, neither mutations nor deletions were detected in either cohort. These findings suggest that mutations in GRIN2A preferentially are involved in genetic variance of pediatric IFE and do not contribute significantly to either adult focal epilepsies as TLE or generalized epilepsies. 	Partial deletions of the RBFOX1 gene encoding the neuronal splicing regulator have been reported in a range of neurodevelopmental diseases including idiopathic/genetic generalized epilepsy (IGE/GGE), childhood focal epilepsy, and self-limited childhood benign epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes (BECTS, rolandic epilepsy), and autism. The protein regulates alternative splicing of many neuronal transcripts involved in the homeostatic control of neuronal excitability. Herein, we examined whether structural deletions affecting RBFOX1 exons confer susceptibility to common forms of juvenile and adult focal epilepsy syndromes. We screened 807 unrelated patients with sporadic focal epilepsy, and we identified seven hemizygous exonic RBFOX1 deletions in patients with sporadic focal epilepsy (0.9%) in comparison to one deletion found in 1,502 controls. The phenotypes of the patients carrying RBFOX1 deletions comprise magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-negative epilepsy of unknown etiology with frontal and temporal origin (n = 5) and two patients with temporal lobe epilepsy with hippocampal sclerosis. The epilepsies were largely pharmacoresistant but not associated with intellectual disability. Our study extends the phenotypic spectrum of RBFOX1 deletions as a risk factor for focal epilepsy and suggests that exonic RBFOX1 deletions are involved in the broad spectrum of focal and generalized epilepsies.	Genetic generalised epilepsy (GGE) is the most common form of genetic epilepsy, accounting for 20% of all epilepsies. Genomic copy number variations (CNVs) constitute important genetic risk factors of common GGE syndromes. In our present genome-wide burden analysis, large (≥ 400 kb) and rare (&lt; 1%) autosomal microdeletions with high calling confidence (≥ 200 markers) were assessed by the Affymetrix SNP 6.0 array in European case-control cohorts of 1,366 GGE patients and 5,234 ancestry-matched controls. We aimed to: 1) assess the microdeletion burden in common GGE syndromes, 2) estimate the relative contribution of recurrent microdeletions at genomic rearrangement hotspots and non-recurrent microdeletions, and 3) identify potential candidate genes for GGE. We found a significant excess of microdeletions in 7.3% of GGE patients compared to 4.0% in controls (P = 1.8 x 10-7; OR = 1.9). Recurrent microdeletions at seven known genomic hotspots accounted for 36.9% of all microdeletions identified in the GGE cohort and showed a 7.5-fold increased burden (P = 2.6 x 10-17) relative to controls. Microdeletions affecting either a gene previously implicated in neurodevelopmental disorders (P = 8.0 x 10-18, OR = 4.6) or an evolutionarily conserved brain-expressed gene related to autism spectrum disorder (P = 1.3 x 10-12, OR = 4.1) were significantly enriched in the GGE patients. Microdeletions found only in GGE patients harboured a high proportion of genes previously associated with epilepsy and neuropsychiatric disorders (NRXN1, RBFOX1, PCDH7, KCNA2, EPM2A, RORB, PLCB1). Our results demonstrate that the significantly increased burden of large and rare microdeletions in GGE patients is largely confined to recurrent hotspot microdeletions and microdeletions affecting neurodevelopmental genes, suggesting a strong impact of fundamental neurodevelopmental processes in the pathogenesis of common GGE syndromes. 	Recent studies reported DEPDC5 loss-of-function mutations in different focal epilepsy syndromes. Here we identified 1 predicted truncation and 2 missense mutations in 3 children with rolandic epilepsy (3 of 207). In addition, we identified 3 families with unclassified focal childhood epilepsies carrying predicted truncating DEPDC5 mutations (3 of 82). The detected variants were all novel, inherited, and present in all tested affected (n=11) and in 7 unaffected family members, indicating low penetrance. Our findings extend the phenotypic spectrum associated with mutations in DEPDC5 and suggest that rolandic epilepsy, albeit rarely, and other nonlesional childhood epilepsies are among the associated syndromes.
Lapin, Brittany	Quantitative Health Sciences	30759300	30314624	30092893	30135254	30587028	30381370	29592886	29708224	25532738	24954277	Assessment of outcomes from a proxy is often substituted for the patient's self-report when the patient is unable or unwilling to report their status. Research has indicated that proxies over-report symptoms on the patient's behalf. This study aimed to quantify the extent of proxy-introduced bias on the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System Global Health (PROMIS GH) scale for mental (GMH) and physical (GPH) scores. This retrospective cohort study included incident stroke patients seen in a cerebrovascular clinic who completed PROMIS GH between 10/12/15 and 6/6/18. Differential item functioning (DIF) evaluated measurement invariance of patient versus proxy responses. DIF impact was assessed by comparing the initial score to the DIF-adjusted score. Subgroup analyses evaluated DIF within strata of stroke severity, measured by modified Rankin Scale (≤ 1, 2, 3+), and time since stroke (≤ 30, 31-90, &gt; 90 days). Of 1351 stroke patients (age 60.5 ± 14.9, 45.1% female), proxy help completing PROMIS GH was required by 406 patients (30.1%). Proxies indicated significantly worse response to all items. No items for GMH or GPH were identified as having meaningful DIF. In subgroup analyses, no DIF was found by severity or 31-90 days post-stroke. In patients within 30 and &gt; 90 days of stroke, DIF was detected for 2 items. Accounting for DIF had negligible effects on scores. Our findings revealed the overestimation of symptoms by proxies is a real difference and not the result of measurement non-invariance. PROMIS GH items do not perform differently or have spuriously inflated severity estimates when administered to proxies instead of patients.	To examine the accuracy of general health cross-walk tables in a clinical sample of patients with spine disorders. Published tables (Schalet BD, Rothrock NE, Hays RD, et al. Linking physical and mental health summary scores from the Veterans RAND 12-Item Health Survey (VR-12) to the PROMIS(®) Global Health Scale. J Gen Intern Med 2015;30:1524-30) link scores from the Veterans RAND 12-Item Health Survey (VR-12) to the 10-Item Patient-Reported Outcome Measurement Information System (PROMIS), a global health scale metric for both mental (GMH) and physical (GPH) summary scores. We assessed the accuracy of administered PROMIS and VR-12 scores with scores predicted by cross-walks in 4606 adult patients seen in a spine clinic from October 2015 to 2016. Accuracy of linking scores was evaluated using Pearson correlation, intraclass correlation coefficients, and mean and SD of score differences. Bland-Altman plots were used to graphically assess the levels of agreement. The consistency in scores' discrimination across levels of pain severity, depression, and other patient characteristics was assessed. Bootstrap methods estimated linking precision across varying sample sizes. Actual and cross-walked PROMIS scores showed moderate correlation (ICC(3,1): GMH 0.73; GPH 0.81), with Bland-Altman plots suggesting smaller differences between scores in patients with lower and higher general health. Significant discrimination between patient subgroups was demonstrated reliably by both actual and estimated scores. Bootstrapped resamples indicated adequate precision for 200 patients (95% confidence interval for mean difference: GMH -1.38 to 0.60; GPH 0.39 to 1.93). VR-12 and PROMIS global health scores can be accurately linked within a sample of patients with spine disorders; nevertheless, bias is high and precision is low for linking on the patient level. Linked scores at the group level for more than 200 patients can be used in comparative effectiveness research and for comparing results across studies.	The Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS) is used by clinicians and researchers to determine level of daytime sleepiness. The number of factors included in the scale has been debated. Our study objective was to clarify the dimensionality of the ESS using a large clinical sample. A retrospective cohort study included all patients presenting for care in a tertiary care sleep disorders center who answered all items on the ESS from January 8, 2008 to September 28, 2012. Dimensionality was assessed using scree plot, eigenvalues, factor loadings, principal factor analysis, and confirmatory factor analysis. Multigroup confirmatory factor analysis (MGCFA) evaluated dimensionality within 10 subgroups of clinical interest. The mean age of the 10,785 study participants was 50 (± 15) years with 49% female, and 81% white. The one-factor solution explained 63% of the variability in responses with high factor loadings (&gt; .67 for all 8 items). The scree plot identified one factor with eigenvalue &gt; 1. Results of confirmatory factor analysis demonstrated a one-factor solution had acceptable goodness of fit as assessed by root mean square error of approximation of .094 (90% confidence interval: .089-.099). MGCFA confirmed measurement invariance within all 10 demographic and clinical subgroups. Our study confirmed the unidimensionality of the ESS in a large diverse clinical population. Results from this study can be used to justify the interpretation of the ESS within clinical populations, and supports valid comparisons between groups based on the ESS. Future studies are warranted to further understand the items comprising the ESS and potentially eliminate redundant items for increased efficiency in clinical settings.	To quantify the neurologic patient experience with patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) and identify factors associated with a positive PROMs experience. This retrospective study included all patients seen in 6 neurologic clinics who completed patient experience questions at least once between October 2015 and September 2016. Questions assessed overall satisfaction with PROMs, as well as 4 facets of the PROM experience: usefulness of questions, ease of understanding, effect on communication with provider, and effect on control of their own care. Clinic and patient characteristics were summarized across questions and predictors of response were identified using multivariable proportional odds models. A total of 16,157 patients answered generic and condition-specific PROMs, as well as questions on their experience with completing PROMs. The majority of patients agreed/strongly agreed questions were easy to understand (96%), useful (83%), and improved communication (78%) and control (71%). After adjustment for other factors, being younger, black, or depressed, or having lower household income, were independent predictors of high satisfaction with PROMs. Patients who indicated the system improved communication and control of care were more often male, black, and lower income. Variability in responses was shown by clinic. Given the growing importance of patient satisfaction in health care, the patient experience with PROMs is a critical component of their successful implementation and utilization. Findings from this study support the feasibility of collecting PROMs in neurologic practice and the potential as a tool to optimize patient-centered neurologic care.	Patient-reported outcome measures are increasingly being utilized in clinical care and research to evaluate outcomes following stroke. To optimize the clinical utility of these measures, we aimed to quantify meaningful change by establishing minimal important differences (MIDs), or responder definitions, for 4 domains affected in ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke patients. We performed a retrospective cohort study of stroke patients seen in the Cleveland Clinic cerebrovascular center between September 2, 2012 and November 7, 2017. Four Patient-Reported Outcome Measurement Information System (PROMIS) scales were completed within 1 month poststroke and again at 6 months. MIDs were estimated using an anchor-based approach based on a global impression of change question and supported using 3 distribution-based methods. Cumulative distribution functions assessed responder thresholds. MIDs were additionally derived across sex, race, and varying levels of severity as defined by the modified Rankin Score and baseline PROMIS score. During the study period, 337 incident stroke patients completed at least 1 PROMIS domain scale at both time points (average age 61±14, 56% female). Estimates from the 4 methods were triangulated to provide a MID range across PROMIS domain: 2.5 to 6.5 T-score points for physical function and fatigue, 2.5 to 7.5 for social role satisfaction, and 3.0 to 8.0 for anxiety. Cumulative distribution functions plots identified between 30% and 40% of patients as having meaningful improvement based on the anchor-based estimates across all 4 domains. Meaningful change thresholds remained consistent across categories of sex and race. Anchor-based MIDs increased with increasing severity, whereas distribution-based MIDs remained consistent across severity levels. Our study is the first to evaluate interpretability of changes in PROMIS scores for stroke survivors. Future studies can utilize these thresholds to identify responders of stroke interventions. Based on our estimated MID ranges, researchers and clinicians can choose a responder threshold for comparing change in domain score at the group level, individual level, or by severity.	To compare the degrees to which 8 domains of health are affected across types of cerebrovascular events and to identify factors associated with domain scores in different event types. This was an observational cohort study of 2,181 patients with ischemic stroke, intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH), subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), or TIA in a cerebrovascular clinic from February 17, 2015, to June 2, 2017 who completed Quality of Life in Neurologic Disorders executive function and the following Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System scales as part of routine care: physical function, satisfaction with social roles, fatigue, anxiety, depression, pain interference, and sleep disturbance. All health domains were affected to similar degrees in patients with ICH, SAH, and ischemic stroke after adjustment for disability and other clinical factors, whereas patients with TIA had worse adjusted scores for 5 of the 8 domains of health. Female sex, younger age, lower income, and event &lt;90 days were associated with worse scores in multiple domains. Factors associated with health domain scores were similar for all cerebrovascular events. Most affected domains for all were physical function, satisfaction with social roles, and executive function. The subtype of stroke (ischemic stroke, ICH, and SAH) had similar effects in multiple health domains, while patients with TIA had worse adjusted outcomes, suggesting that the mechanisms for outcomes after TIA may differ from those of other cerebrovascular events. The most affected domains across all event types were physical function, satisfaction with social roles, and executive function, highlighting the need to develop effective interventions to improve these health domains in survivors of these cerebrovascular events.	(1) Examine 8 patient-reported domains of health across levels of disability compared to the US general population; and (2) identify factors associated with domain scores in patients with ischemic stroke. Observational cohort study of 1,195 patients in a cerebrovascular clinic from February 17, 2015, to January 27, 2017, who completed Neuro-QoL (Quality of Life in Neurological Disorders) executive function or the following PROMIS (Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System) scales as part of routine care: physical function, satisfaction with social roles, fatigue, anxiety, depression, pain interference, and sleep disturbance. Mean age was 62 (±15) years, and 81% were white. Median modified Rankin Scale (mRS) score at the clinic visit was 1 (interquartile range 0-2). Percentage of patients with scores meaningfully worse than the general population ranged from 28% (sleep disturbance) to 63% (physical function). Scores were worse in patients with higher mRS levels, although correlation between scores and mRS level varied (sleep disturbance r = 0.16 to physical function r = 0.52). Most affected domains were physical function (T score = 58.8), satisfaction with social roles (T score = 55.4), and executive function (T score = 53.4). Disability, lower income, and female sex were associated with worse scores in multiple domains. Age was associated with worse physical function but lower anxiety, depression, and sleep disturbance. Patients with ischemic stroke reported symptoms in multiple domains that increase to variable degrees at higher levels of disability. Physical function, satisfaction with social roles, and executive function were most affected. This information improves our understanding of the well-being of patients with ischemic stroke and brings attention to the importance of social roles and executive function for stroke survivors.	We sought to assess neurologic provider satisfaction with the systematic electronic collection of patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) for both disease-specific measures and depression screening (Patient Health Questionnaire [PHQ-9]). A web-based survey was sent to 299 staff physicians and advanced practice providers on the staff email list of a large group neurologic practice, of whom 206 used the PROM system. The survey consisted of 11 questions with Likert response options regarding perceived usefulness of PROM collection; usefulness of PROM data for clinical care, quality, and research activities according to provider age group and type; and perceived usefulness between disease-specific information and the PHQ-9 depression screen. Of those who use the PROM system, 73.3% (151/206) responded. PROM collection was useful for patient care (strongly agree or agree 59.6%), research (strongly agree or agree 68.5%), and to a lesser extent, quality improvement (strongly agree or agree 48.6%). Providers aged 66-75 years believed PROM data were less useful for research (p &lt; 0.01). PROM collection affected patient interactions or clinical management (always or usually 34.6% for disease-specific information and 31.3% for the PHQ-9). Responses were similar concerning perceived clinical usefulness (strongly agree or agree 67.3%) for center-selected disease-specific PROMs and the mandated PHQ-9 (69.8%). Providers favorably viewed systematic electronic collection of PROMs in neurologic patients. A mandated depression screening was perceived as favorably as center-selected disease-specific information and should be considered when implementing PROMs in neurologic practice.	Asthma prevalence has doubled in developed countries during the past 30 years. Pre- and perinatal events are essential in shaping the development of the immune system and systemic antibiotic use during this time could alter the maternal or placental microbiome, leading to an increase in the child's risk of developing asthma. To determine whether prenatal antibiotic use is associated with asthma and wheezing in children at risk for asthma. Using data from a randomized education intervention of families at risk for asthma from 1998 followed through 2009 in urban Chicago, asthma was defined as ever having a physician asthma diagnosis by year 3 and wheezing in the third year. Logistic regression models controlling for confounders investigated the effect of antibiotic use during pregnancy on these outcomes. After adjustment, prenatal antibiotic use was a risk factor for asthma (odds ratio 3.1, 95% confidence interval 1.4-6.8) but was only weakly associated with wheezing (odds ratio 1.8, 95% confidence interval 0.9-3.3). Analyses of the effects of timing of prenatal antibiotic use on asthma and wheezing showed the relation remained consistent for antibiotic use later in pregnancy, but the outcomes were not associated with antibiotic use in the first trimester. This study suggests prenatal antibiotic use might be associated with the development of asthma in children at risk for asthma. Although the relation with prenatal antibiotics does not hold for wheezing in this study, there might be a trend that could be delineated further within a larger cohort study.	NA
Lathia, Justin	Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences	31018124	30595497	30877099	30729665	30385717	29699876	29644711	29422613	29282720	28664387	Gap-junction-mediated cell-cell communication enables tumor cells to synchronize complex processes. We previously found that glioblastoma cancer stem cells (CSCs) express higher levels of the gap junction protein Cx46 compared to non-stem tumor cells (non-CSCs) and that this was necessary and sufficient for CSC maintenance. To understand the mechanism underlying this requirement, we use point mutants to disrupt specific functions of Cx46 and find that Cx46-mediated gap-junction coupling is critical for CSCs. To develop a Cx46 targeting strategy, we screen a clinically relevant small molecule library and identify clofazimine as an inhibitor of Cx46-specific cell-cell communication. Clofazimine attenuates proliferation, self-renewal, and tumor growth and synergizes with temozolomide to induce apoptosis. Although clofazimine does not cross the blood-brain barrier, the combination of clofazimine derivatives optimized for brain penetrance with standard-of-care therapies may target glioblastoma CSCs. Furthermore, these results demonstrate the importance of targeting cell-cell communication as an anti-cancer therapy.	Tumors are composed of non-homogeneous cell populations exhibiting varying degrees of genetic and functional heterogeneity. Cancer stem cells (CSCs) are capable of sustaining tumors by manipulating genetic and non-genetic factors to metastasize, resist treatment, and maintain the tumor microenvironment. Understanding the key traits and mechanisms of CSC survival provides opportunities to improve patient outcomes via improved prognostic models and therapeutics. Here, we review the clinical significance of CSCs and results of potential CSC-targeting therapies in various cancers. We discuss barriers to translating cues from pre-clinical models into clinical applications and propose new strategies for rational design of future anti-CSC trials.	While many molecular alterations in glioblastoma (GBM), the most common primary malignant brain tumor, have been defined, the intricate signaling networks associated with these alterations that represent actionable therapeutic targets are less well established. Chen and colleagues leverage a Drosophila GBM model to identify a conserved signaling axis downstream of the EGFR and PI3K that involves the death-associated protein kinase (Drak), a cytoplasmic serine/threonine kinase orthologous to the human kinase STK17A. Functional studies revealed that targeting this signaling axis attenuated mitosis and cytokinesis, providing a new pathway for therapeutic development in GBM.See related article by Chen et al., p. 1085.	Cancer stem cells (CSCs) are a heterogeneous and dynamic self-renewing population that stands at the top of tumor cellular hierarchy and contribute to tumor recurrence and therapeutic resistance. As methods of CSC isolation and functional interrogation advance, there is a need for a reliable and accessible quantitative approach to assess heterogeneity and state transition dynamics in CSCs. We developed a high-throughput automated single cell imaging analysis (HASCIA) approach for the quantitative assessment of protein expression with single-cell resolution and applied the method to investigate spatiotemporal factors that influence CSC state transition using glioblastoma (GBM) CSCs (GSCs) as a model system. We were able to validate the quantitative nature of this approach through comparison of the protein expression levels determined by HASCIA to those determined by immunoblotting. A virtue of HASCIA was exemplified by detection of a subpopulation of SOX2-low cells, which expanded in fraction size during state transition. HASCIA also revealed that GSCs were committed to loose stem cell state at an earlier time point than the average SOX2 level decreased. Functional assessment of stem cell frequency in combination with the quantification of SOX2 expression by HASCIA defined a stable cutoff of SOX2 expression level for stem cell state. We also developed an approach to assess local cell density and found that denser monolayer areas possess higher average levels of SOX2, higher cell diversity, and a presence of a sub-population of slowly proliferating SOX2-low GSCs. HASCIA is an open source software that facilitates understanding the dynamics of heterogeneous cell population such as that of GSCs and their progeny. It is a powerful and easy-to-use image analysis and statistical analysis tool available at https://hascia.lerner.ccf.org. © 2019 International Society for Advancement of Cytometry.	Glioblastoma (GBM) remains uniformly lethal, and despite a large accumulation of immune cells in the microenvironment, there is limited antitumor immune response. To overcome these challenges, a comprehensive understanding of GBM systemic immune response during disease progression is required. Here, we integrated multiparameter flow cytometry and mass cytometry TOF (CyTOF) analysis of patient blood to determine changes in the immune system among tumor types and over disease progression. Utilizing flow cytometry analysis in a cohort of 259 patients ranging from benign to malignant primary and metastatic brain tumors, we found that GBM patients had a significant elevation in myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) in peripheral blood but not immunosuppressive Tregs. In GBM patient tissue, we found that increased MDSC levels in recurrent GBM portended poor prognosis. CyTOF analysis of peripheral blood from newly diagnosed GBM patients revealed that reduced MDSCs over time were accompanied by a concomitant increase in DCs. GBM patients with extended survival also had reduced MDSCs, similar to the levels of low-grade glioma (LGG) patients. Our findings provide a rationale for developing strategies to target MDSCs, which are elevated in GBM patients and predict poor prognosis.	NA	Glioblastoma is a malignant brain tumor that inevitably develops resistance to standard of care drug temozolomide (TMZ) due to a population of cells called cancer stem cells (CSCs). These cells utilize progenitor cell signaling programs and develop robust DNA repair machinery. In this editorial highlight we focus on stem cell regulation of TMZ resistance and discuss findings of Happold et al. () that outline direct transcriptional regulation of DNA repair enzyme O6-methylguanine DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) in glioblastoma CSCs through NFkB activation. The authors found that cells cultured in CSC propagating conditions exhibit increase in MGMT expression when compared to adherent differentiated monolayer cells. This in turn increases resistance to standard of care drug temozolomide (TMZ) in these cells. NFkB activation was found to directly activate expression of MGMT in sphere cultured GBM CSC.	Tumors adapt their phenotypes during growth and in response to therapies through dynamic changes in cellular processes. Connexin proteins enable such dynamic changes during development, and their dysregulation leads to disease states. The gap junction communication channels formed by connexins have been reported to exhibit tumor-suppressive functions, including in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). However, we find that connexin 26 (Cx26) is elevated in self-renewing cancer stem cells (CSCs) and is necessary and sufficient for their maintenance. Cx26 promotes CSC self-renewal by forming a signaling complex with the pluripotency transcription factor NANOG and focal adhesion kinase (FAK), resulting in NANOG stabilization and FAK activation. This FAK/NANOG-containing complex is not formed in mammary epithelial or luminal breast cancer cells. These findings challenge the paradigm that connexins are tumor suppressors in TNBC and reveal a unique function for Cx26 in regulating the core self-renewal signaling that controls CSC maintenance.	Glioblastoma (GBM) cancer stem cells (CSCs) are insidious. They extensively infiltrate brain tissue, resist radiotherapy and chemotherapy, and are thought to represent the ultimate drivers of disease progression. New research has identified CD109, a GPI-anchored protein, on a population of perivascular CSCs. Investigation of primary human tumour tissue suggests a role for CD109-expressing CSCs in the progression from low-grade to high-grade glioma, and animal modelling reveals a critical role for CD109 in the maintenance of the GBM CSC phenotype. Furthermore, CD109-expressing CSCs appear to drive the proliferation of adjacent non-stem tumour cells (NSTCs) in a rare example of CSC-NSTC cooperative interaction. With this Commentary, we highlight the newly revealed biology of CD109, and offer a synthesis of the published information on glioma CSCs in a variety of anatomical growth zones. We also discuss the landscape of interacting cells within GBM tumours, emphasizing the few reported examples of pro-tumourigenic, interactive tumour cell partnerships, as well as a variety of tumour cell-non-transformed neural cell interactions. Copyright © 2017 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.	Advances in cancer research in the past have led to an evolving understanding of cancer pathogenesis and the development of novel drugs that significantly improve patient outcomes. However, many patients still encounter treatment resistance, recurrence, or metastasis and eventually die from progressing disease. Experimental evidence indicates that a subpopulation of cancer cells, called cancer stem cells (CSCs), possess &quot;stemness&quot; properties similar to normal stem cells, including self-renewal, differentiation, and proliferative potential. These stemness properties are lost during differentiation and are governed by pathways such as STAT3, NANOG, NOTCH, WNT, and HEDGEHOG, which are highly dysregulated in CSCs due to genetic and epigenetic changes. Promising results have been observed in preclinical models targeting these CSCs through the disruption of stemness pathways in combination with current treatment modalities. This has led to anti-CSC-based clinical trials in multiple stages of development. In this review, we discuss the role of CSCs and stemness pathways in cancer treatment and how they relate to clinical observations. Because CSCs and the stemness pathways governing them may explain the negative clinical outcomes observed during treatment, it is important for oncologists to understand how they contribute to cancer progression and how they may be targeted to improve patient outcomes.
Lee, Byron	Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences	29209771	28753780	25294696	27646943	23233737	21683989	21146865	16230360	23021664	26628371	To understand the longitudinal renal function trends in patients undergoing radical nephroureterectomy (RNU) and identify clinicopathologic characteristics associated with estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) recovery. 147 patients were available for analysis. Longitudinal eGFR trends were assessed by plotting each patient's eGFR measurements over time. The patient population was dichotomized using eGFR &lt; 60 ml/min/1.73 m<sup>2</sup> versus ≥ 60 ml/min/1.73 m<sup>2</sup>. Cumulative incidence and competing risk regression analysis were used to estimate recovery of postoperative eGFR to the preoperative level and identify clinicopathologic characteristics associated with eGFR recovery. Median age was 68.7 years and median preoperative eGFR was 55.9 ml/min/1.73 m<sup>2</sup>. 63.6% were male and 95.8% were white. The cumulative incidence of eGFR recovery was significantly higher in patients with baseline eGFR &lt; 60 ml/min/1.73 m<sup>2</sup> compared to those with baseline eGFR ≥ 60 ml/min/1.73 m<sup>2</sup> (p = 0.01), with recovery rates at 2 years of 56.6% vs. 27.7%, respectively. Multivariable analysis revealed that preoperative hydronephrosis (HR 1.80) and preoperative eGFR &lt; 60 ml/min/1.73 m<sup>2</sup> (HR 1.87) were associated with increased chance of eGFR recovery. Over half of patients with preoperative eGFR &lt; 60 ml/min/1.73 m<sup>2</sup> achieved eGFR recovery within the first 3 years after RNU, and hydronephrosis was a significant predictor of recovery. These findings should be considered when counseling patients regarding chronic kidney disease progression after RNU and timing of perioperative chemotherapy for high risk tumors.	Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (RCC) continues to be the most commonly diagnosed subtype and is associated with more aggressive behavior than papillary and chromophobe RCC. Predicting disease recurrence after surgical extirpation is important for counseling and targeting those at high risk for adjuvant therapy clinical trials. To validate a postoperative nomogram predicting 5-yr recurrence-free probability (RFP) for clinically localized clear cell RCC. We identified all patients who underwent nephrectomy for clinically localized clear cell RCC from 1990 to 2009 at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. After excluding patients with bilateral renal masses, familial RCC syndromes, and T3c or T4 tumors due to the limited number, 1642 participants were available for analysis. Partial or radical nephrectomy. Disease recurrence was defined as any new tumor after nephrectomy or kidney cancer-specific mortality, whichever occurred first. A postoperative nomogram was used to calculate the predicted 5-yr RFP, and these values were compared with the actual 5-yr RFP. Nomogram performance was evaluated by concordance index and calibration plot. Median follow-up was 39 mo (interquartile range: 14-79 mo), and disease recurrence was observed in 50 patients. The nomogram concordance index was 0.81. The calibration curve showed that the nomogram underestimated the actual 5-yr RFP. We updated the nomogram by including the entire patient population, which maintained performance and significantly improved calibration. The updated clear cell RCC postoperative nomogram performed well in the combined cohort. Underestimation of actual 5-yr RFP by the original nomogram may be due to increased surgeon experience and other unknown variables. We updated a valuable prediction tool used for assessing the disease recurrence probability after nephrectomy for clear cell renal cell carcinoma.	Due to the protracted natural history of the clinical progression of prostate cancer, biochemical recurrence (BCR) is often used to compare treatment modalities. However, BCR definitions and posttreatment prostate-specific antigen kinetics vary considerably among treatments, calling into the question the validity of such comparisons. To analyze prostate cancer-specific mortality (PCSM) according to treatment-specific nomogram-predicted risk of BCR for men treated by radical prostatectomy (RP), external-beam radiation therapy (EBRT), and brachytherapy. A total of 13 803 men who underwent RP, EBRT, or brachytherapy at two US high-volume hospitals between 1995 and 2008. RP, EBRT, and brachytherapy. The 5-yr progression-free probability (5Y-PFP) was calculated for each patient based on the treatment received using a validated treatment-specific nomogram. Fine and Gray competing risk analysis was then used to estimate PCSM by a patient's predicted 5Y-PFP. Multivariable competing risk regression analysis was used to determine the association of treatment with PCSM after adjusting for nomogram-predicted 5Y-PFP. Men receiving EBRT had higher 10-yr PCSM compared with those treated by RP across the range of nomogram-predicted risks of BCR: 5Y-PFP &gt;75%, 3% versus 0.9%; 5Y-PFP 51-75%, 6.8% versus 5.9%; 5Y-PFP 26-50%, 12.2% versus 10.6%; and 5Y-PFP ≤25%, 26.6% versus 21.2%. After adjusting for nomogram-predicted 5Y-PFP, EBRT was associated with a significantly increased PCSM risk compared with RP (hazard ratio: 1.5; 95% confidence interval, 1.1-2.0; p=0.006). No statistically significant difference in PCSM was observed between patients treated by brachytherapy and RP, although patient selection factors and lack of statistical power limited this analysis. EBRT patients with similar nomogram-predicted 5Y-PFP appear to have a significantly increased risk of PCSM compared with those treated by RP. Comparison of treatments using nomogram-predicted BCR end points may not be valid. Biochemical recurrence (BCR) outcomes after external-beam radiation therapy and radical prostatectomy are associated with different risks of subsequent prostate cancer-specific mortality. Physicians and patients should cautiously interpret BCR end points when comparing treatments to make treatment decisions.	Purpose Owing to its exquisite chemotherapy sensitivity, most patients with metastatic germ cell tumors (GCTs) are cured with cisplatin-based chemotherapy. However, up to 30% of patients with advanced GCT exhibit cisplatin resistance, which requires intensive salvage treatment, and have a 50% risk of cancer-related death. To identify a genetic basis for cisplatin resistance, we performed whole-exome and targeted sequencing of cisplatin-sensitive and cisplatin-resistant GCTs. Methods Men with GCT who received a cisplatin-containing chemotherapy regimen and had available tumor tissue were eligible to participate in this study. Whole-exome sequencing or targeted exon-capture-based sequencing was performed on 180 tumors. Patients were categorized as cisplatin sensitive or cisplatin resistant by using a combination of postchemotherapy parameters, including serum tumor marker levels, radiology, and pathology at surgical resection of residual disease. Results TP53 alterations were present exclusively in cisplatin-resistant tumors and were particularly prevalent among primary mediastinal nonseminomas (72%). TP53 pathway alterations including MDM2 amplifications were more common among patients with adverse clinical features, categorized as poor risk according to the International Germ Cell Cancer Collaborative Group (IGCCCG) model. Despite this association, TP53 and MDM2 alterations predicted adverse prognosis independent of the IGCCCG model. Actionable alterations, including novel RAC1 mutations, were detected in 55% of cisplatin-resistant GCTs. Conclusion In GCT, TP53 and MDM2 alterations were associated with cisplatin resistance and inferior outcomes, independent of the IGCCCG model. The finding of frequent TP53 alterations among mediastinal primary nonseminomas may explain the more frequent chemoresistance observed with this tumor subtype. A substantial portion of cisplatin-resistant GCTs harbor actionable alterations, which might respond to targeted therapies. Genomic profiling of patients with advanced GCT could improve current risk stratification and identify novel therapeutic approaches for patients with cisplatin-resistant disease.	Recent epidemiologic data show that low serum cholesterol level as well as statin use is associated with a decreased risk of developing aggressive or advanced prostate cancer, suggesting a role for cholesterol in aggressive prostate cancer development. Intracellular cholesterol promotes prostate cancer progression as a substrate for de novo androgen synthesis and through regulation of AKT signaling. By conducting next-generation sequencing-based DNA methylome analysis, we have discovered marked hypermethylation at the promoter of the major cellular cholesterol efflux transporter, ABCA1, in LNCaP prostate cancer cells. ABCA1 promoter hypermethylation renders the promoter unresponsive to transactivation and leads to elevated cholesterol levels in LNCaP. ABCA1 promoter hypermethylation is enriched in intermediate- to high-grade prostate cancers and not detectable in benign prostate. Remarkably, ABCA1 downregulation is evident in all prostate cancers examined, and expression levels are inversely correlated with Gleason grade. Our results suggest that cancer-specific ABCA1 hypermethylation and loss of protein expression direct high intracellular cholesterol levels and hence contribute to an environment conducive to tumor progression.	To assess the utility of the percent free prostate-specific antigen (%fPSA) for the prediction of prostate cancer in men undergoing repeat biopsy. A retrospective review was performed of 1037 patients in an institutional review board-approved repeat prostate biopsy database. A total of 617 patients who underwent 683 biopsies had all their data available for analysis. The patients were categorized as having undergone 1 repeat biopsy or &gt;1 repeat biopsy. The overall cancer detection rate was 27% and 22% in men who underwent 1 and &gt;1 repeat biopsy, respectively. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve for the %fPSA was 0.65 for men who underwent 1 repeat biopsy. Multivariate analysis demonstrated that a positive family history, decreasing %fPSA, and presence of high-grade intraepithelial neoplasia and/or atypical small acinar proliferation predicted for cancer. The univariate odds ratio for every 5% decrease in the %fPSA was 1.5 (95% confidence interval 1.2-1.7). The performance of %fPSA was further improved in men who underwent &gt;1 repeat biopsy, with an area under the curve of 0.72. In men who underwent &gt;1 repeat biopsy, multivariate analysis showed that a decreasing %fPSA, &gt;20 cores removed, and high-grade intraepithelial neoplasia predicted for cancer. The univariate odds ratio for every 5% decrease in the %fPSA was 1.8 (95% confidence interval 1.4-2.3). A %fPSA cutoff of 10% achieved 90% and 91% specificity in the 1 repeat biopsy and &gt;1 repeat biopsy groups, respectively. %fPSA is useful in predicting for prostate cancer in the repeat biopsy population, particularly for those who have undergone multiple repeat biopsies. A persistently low %fPSA should prompt additional investigation in these men.	To validate the performance of percentage of free prostate-specific antigen (%fPSA) in men undergoing extended scheme biopsy. The current cutoff values for %fPSA were chosen using data from sextant biopsies, which have been known to miss a significant number of prostate cancer cases. Additionally, we sought to validate the use of %fPSA in men with a total PSA &lt; 4.0 ng/mL or &gt; 10.0 ng/mL. We evaluated %fPSA performance in 1077 men who had undergone initial extended prostate biopsy. The men were categorized according to their PSA level into 2 groups (&gt;4.0 and ≤4.0) ng/mL. The overall cancer detection rate was 42.1%. The mean PSA level was 7.6 ng/mL, and the mean %fPSA was 18.0%. The area under the curve for %fPSA was 0.59 (95% confidence interval 0.57-0.61) for all PSA levels, comparable to previous reports from sextant biopsy series. The performance of %fPSA in predicting prostate cancer on initial extended biopsy was improved with a PSA level of ≤4.0 ng/mL (area under the curve 0.66, 95% confidence interval 0.62-0.70) compared with a PSA level &gt;4.0 ng/mL (area under the curve 0.57, 95% confidence interval 0.55-0.59; P &lt; .001). A specificity of 85% was achieved for a %fPSA cutoff of 11% for the ≤4.0-ng/mL group and 10% for the &gt;4.0-ng/mL group. The performance of %fPSA in predicting the presence of prostate cancer was not altered when an extended biopsy scheme was used. Although a %fPSA level greater than our cutoffs would not rule out prostate cancer, a low %fPSA would be particularly useful in predicting prostate cancer, especially in men with normal digital rectal examination findings and a PSA level &lt;4 ng/mL.	CpG island hypermethylation occurs in most cases of cancer, typically resulting in the transcriptional silencing of critical cancer genes. Procainamide has been shown to inhibit DNA methyltransferase activity and reactivate silenced gene expression in cancer cells by reversing CpG island hypermethylation. We report here that procainamide specifically inhibits the hemimethylase activity of DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1), the mammalian enzyme thought to be responsible for maintaining DNA methylation patterns during replication. At micromolar concentrations, procainamide was found to be a partial competitive inhibitor of DNMT1, reducing the affinity of the enzyme for its two substrates, hemimethylated DNA and S-adenosyl-l-methionine. By doing so, procainamide significantly decreased the processivity of DNMT1 on hemimethylated DNA. Procainamide was not a potent inhibitor of the de novo methyltransferases DNMT3a and DNMT3b2. As further evidence of the specificity of procainamide for DNMT1, procainamide failed to lower genomic 5-methyl-2'-deoxycytidine levels in HCT116 colorectal cancer cells when DNMT1 was genetically deleted but significantly reduced genomic 5-methyl-2'-deoxycytidine content in parental HCT116 cells and in HCT116 cells where DNMT3b was genetically deleted. Because many reports have strongly linked DNMT1 with epigenetic alterations in carcinogenesis, procainamide may be a useful drug in the prevention of cancer.	To assess the impact of imperative or elective indications on the perioperative outcomes of patients undergoing robotic partial nephrectomy. Between January 2008 and August 2011, 381 consecutive robotic partial nephrectomies were retrospectively included. Two groups of patients were identified: those who underwent the procedure for an imperative indication (n = 98) and those who underwent the procedure for an elective indication (n = 283). Perioperative and renal function outcomes were compared between the 2 groups. Multivariate analysis was performed to determine whether imperative indications were predictors of complications, chronic kidney disease stage upstaging, postoperative estimated glomerular filtration rate, and percentage of estimated glomerular filtration rate decrease. There were no differences between the 2 groups with respect to RENAL score and tumor size. Patients in the imperative group were more likely to have a higher Charlson Comorbidity Index score (6 vs 4, P &lt; .001), higher chronic kidney disease stage (P &lt; .001), and lower estimated glomerular filtration rate (61.9 vs 88.6 mL/min/1.73 m(2), P &lt; .001). Perioperative outcomes were similar with respect to warm ischemia time, estimated blood loss, operative time, transfusion rate, positive surgical margin rate, and length of stay. Imperative indications were associated with higher major complication rate (7.22% vs 2.47%, P = .032), but not with overall (31.6% vs 26%, P = .62) and intraoperative complications (6.1% vs 3.2%, P = .22). In multivariate analysis, imperative indication was an independent predictor of postoperative estimated glomerular filtration rate but was not a predictor of percentage of estimated glomerular filtration rate decrease and chronic kidney disease upstaging. Patients undergoing robotic partial nephrectomy for an imperative indication have similar functional outcomes than those with an elective indication. However, they are at higher risk of major complications.	A critical need in understanding the biology of prostate cancer is characterizing the molecular differences between indolent and aggressive cases. Because DNA methylation can capture the regulatory state of tumors, we analyzed differential methylation patterns genome-wide among benign prostatic tissue and low-grade and high-grade prostate cancer and found extensive, focal hypermethylation regions unique to high-grade disease. These hypermethylation regions occurred not only in the promoters of genes but also in gene bodies and at intergenic regions that are enriched for DNA-protein binding sites. Integration with existing RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) and survival data revealed regions where DNA methylation correlates with reduced gene expression associated with poor outcome. Regions specific to aggressive disease are proximal to genes with distinct functions from regions shared by indolent and aggressive disease. Our compendium of methylation changes reveals crucial molecular distinctions between indolent and aggressive prostate cancer.
Lee, Jeongwu	Cancer Biology	18167341	19427293	22083670	22617325	30899443	30898893	30262818	28164090	26641068	26032834	Despite similarities between tumor-initiating cells with stem-like properties (TICs) and normal neural stem cells, we hypothesized that there may be differences in their differentiation potentials. We now demonstrate that both bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)-mediated and ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF)-mediated Jak/STAT-dependent astroglial differentiation is impaired due to EZH2-dependent epigenetic silencing of BMP receptor 1B (BMPR1B) in a subset of glioblastoma TICs. Forced expression of BMPR1B either by transgene expression or demethylation of the promoter restores their differentiation capabilities and induces loss of their tumorigenicity. We propose that deregulation of the BMP developmental pathway in a subset of glioblastoma TICs contributes to their tumorigenicity both by desensitizing TICs to normal differentiation cues and by converting otherwise cytostatic signals to proproliferative signals.	CD133+ populations of human glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) cells are reportedly enriched for tumor stem cells (TSCs) or tumor-initiating cells (TICs). Approximately 40% of freshly isolated GBM specimens, however, do not contain CD133+ tumor cells, raising the possibility that CD133 may not be a universal enrichment marker for GBM TSCs/TICs. Here we demonstrate that stage-specific embryonic antigen 1(SSEA-1/LeX)+ GBM cells fulfill the functional criteria for TSC/TIC, since (1) SSEA-1+ cells are highly tumorigenic in vivo, unlike SSEA-1- cells; (2) SSEA-1+ cells can give rise to both SSEA-1+ and SSEA-1- cells, thereby establishing a cellular hierarchy; and (3) SSEA-1+ cells have self-renewal and multilineage differentiation potentials. A distinct subpopulation of SSEA-1+ cells was present in all but one of the primary GBMs examined (n = 24), and most CD133+ tumor cells were also SSEA-1+, suggesting that SSEA-1 may be a general TSC/TIC enrichment marker in human GBMs.	Glioblastoma (GBM) patients have dismal median survival even with the most rigorous treatments currently available. Radiotherapy is the most effective non-surgical therapy for GBM patients; however, patients succumb due to tumor recurrence within a year. To develop a curative therapeutic approach, we need to better understand the underlying molecular mechanism of radiation resistance in GBM. Towards this goal, we developed an in vivo orthotopic GBM model system that mimics the radiation response of human GBM, using both established-GBM cell line and patient-derived freshly dissociated GBM specimen. In-vivo ionizing radiation (IR) treatment prolonged the survival of mice with intracranical tumor derived from U373MG, but failed to prevent tumor recurrence. U373MG and GBM578 cells isolated after in-vivo IR (U373-IR and 578-IR) were more clonogenic and enriched with stem cell-like characteristics, compared with mock-treated control tumor cells. Transcriptomic analyses and quantitative real-time reverse-transcription PCR analyses using these matched GBM cells before and after radiation treatment revealed that Wnt pathways were preferentially activated in post-IR GBM cells. U373-IR cells and 578-IR were enriched with cells positive for both active β-catenin (ABC) and Sox2 population, and this subpopulation was further increased after additional in-vitro radiation treatment, suggesting that radiation resistance of GBM is mediated due, in part, to the activation of stem cell-associated pathways including Wnt. Finally, pharmacological and siRNA inhibition of Wnt pathway significantly decreased the survival and clonogenicity of GBM cells and reduced their ABC(+)/Sox2(+) population. Together, these data suggest that Wnt activation is a molecular mechanism to confer GBM radioresistance and an important therapeutic target.	Glioblastomas multiforme (GBM) contain highly tumorigenic, self-renewing populations of stem/initiating cells [glioblastoma stem cells (GSC)] that contribute to tumor propagation and treatment resistance. However, our knowledge of the specific signaling pathways that regulate GSCs is limited. The MET tyrosine kinase is known to stimulate the survival, proliferation, and invasion of various cancers including GBM. Here, we identified a distinct fraction of cells expressing a high level of MET in human primary GBM specimens that were preferentially localized in perivascular regions of human GBM biopsy tissues and were found to be highly clonogenic, tumorigenic, and resistant to radiation. Inhibition of MET signaling in GSCs disrupted tumor growth and invasiveness both in vitro and in vivo, suggesting that MET activation is required for GSCs. Together, our findings indicate that MET activation in GBM is a functional requisite for the cancer stem cell phenotype and a promising therapeutic target.	The cholesterol-lowering statins have known anti-cancer effects, but the mechanisms and how to utilize statins in oncology have been unclear. We noted in the CellMiner database that statin activity against cancer lines correlated with higher expression of TGF-β target genes such as SERPINE1 and ZYX. This prompted us to assess whether statins affected TGF-β activity in glioblastoma (GBM), a cancer strongly influenced by TGF-β and in dire need of new therapeutic approaches. We noted that statins reduced TGF-β activity, cell viability and invasiveness, Rho/ROCK activity, phosphorylation and activity of the TGF-β mediator Smad3, and expression of TGF-β targets ZYX and SERPINE1 in GBM and GBM-initiating cell (GIC) lines. Statins were most potent against GBM, GIC, and other cancer cells with high TGF-β activity, and exogenous TGF-β further sensitized mesenchymal GICs to statins. Statin toxicity was rescued by addition of exogenous mevalonolactone or geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate, indicating that the observed effects reflected inhibition of HMG CoA-reductase by the statins. Simvastatin significantly inhibited the growth of subcutaneous GIC grafts and prolonged survival in GIC intracranially grafted mice. These results indicate where the statins might best be applied as adjunct therapies in oncology, against GBM and other cancers with high TGF-β activity, and have implications for other statin roles outside of oncology.	Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most malignant brain tumor with profound genomic alterations. Tumor suppressor genes regulate multiple signaling networks that restrict cellular proliferation and present barriers to malignant transformation. While bona fide tumor suppressors such as PTEN and TP53 often undergo inactivation due to mutations, there are several genes for which genomic deletion is the primary route for tumor progression. To functionally identify putative tumor suppressors in GBM, we employed in vivo RNAi screening using patient-derived xenograft models. Here, we identified PIP4K2A, whose functional role and clinical relevance remain unexplored in GBM. We discovered that PIP4K2A negatively regulates phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) signaling via p85/p110 component degradation in PTEN-deficient GBMs and specifically targets p85 for proteasome-mediated degradation. Overexpression of PIP4K2A suppressed cellular and clonogenic growth in vitro and impeded tumor growth in vivo. Our results unravel a novel tumor-suppressive role of PIP4K2A for the first time and support the feasibility of combining oncogenomics with in vivo RNAi screen.	Outcomes of anticancer therapy vary dramatically among patients due to diverse genetic and molecular backgrounds, highlighting extensive intertumoral heterogeneity. The fundamental tenet of precision oncology defines molecular characterization of tumors to guide optimal patient-tailored therapy. Towards this goal, we have established a compilation of pharmacological landscapes of 462 patient-derived tumor cells (PDCs) across 14 cancer types, together with genomic and transcriptomic profiling in 385 of these tumors. Compared with the traditional long-term cultured cancer cell line models, PDCs recapitulate the molecular properties and biology of the diseases more precisely. Here, we provide insights into dynamic pharmacogenomic associations, including molecular determinants that elicit therapeutic resistance to EGFR inhibitors, and the potential repurposing of ibrutinib (currently used in hematological malignancies) for EGFR-specific therapy in gliomas. Lastly, we present a potential implementation of PDC-derived drug sensitivities for the prediction of clinical response to targeted therapeutics using retrospective clinical studies.	In a number of cancers, deregulated MET pathway leads to aberrantly activated proliferative and invasive signaling programs that promote malignant transformation, cell motility and migration, angiogenesis, survival in hypoxia, and invasion. A better understanding of oncogenic MET signaling will help us to discover effective therapeutic approaches and to identify which tumors are likely to respond to MET-targeted cancer therapy. In this review, we will summarize the roles of MET signaling in cancer, with particular focus on epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and cancer stemness. Then, we will provide update on MET targeting agents and discuss the challenges that should be overcome for the development of an effective therapy.	WNTs and their downstream effectors regulate proliferation, death, and migration and cell fate decision. Deregulation of WNT signaling is associated with various cancers including GBM, which is the most malignant primary brain cancer. In this review, we will summarize the experimental evidence supporting oncogenic roles of WNT signaling in GBM and discuss current progress in the targeting of WNT signaling as an anti-cancer approach. In particular, we will focus on (1) genetic and epigenetic alterations that lead to aberrant WNT pathway activation in GBM, (2) WNT-mediated control of GBM stem cell maintenance and invasion, and (3) cross-talk between WNT and other signaling pathways in GBM. We will then review the discovery of agents that can inhibit WNT signaling in preclinical models and the current status of human clinical trials. 	Clinical benefits from standard therapies against glioblastoma (GBM) are limited in part due to intrinsic radio- and chemoresistance of GBM and inefficient targeting of GBM stem-like cells (GSCs). Novel therapeutic approaches that overcome treatment resistance and diminish stem-like properties of GBM are needed. We determined the expression levels of ubiquitination-specific proteases (USPs) by transcriptome analysis and found that USP1 is highly expressed in GBM. Using the patient GBM-derived primary tumor cells, we inhibited USP1 by shRNA-mediated knockdown or its specific inhibitor pimozide and evaluated the effects on stem cell marker expression, proliferation, and clonogenic growth of tumor cells. USP1 was highly expressed in gliomas relative to normal brain tissues and more preferentially in GSC enrichment marker (CD133 or CD15) positive cells. USP1 positively regulated the protein stability of the ID1 and CHEK1, critical regulators of DNA damage response and stem cell maintenance. Targeting USP1 by RNA interference or treatment with a chemical USP1 inhibitor attenuated clonogenic growth and survival of GSCs and enhanced radiosensitivity of GBM cells. Finally, USP1 inhibition alone or in combination with radiation significantly prolonged the survival of tumor-bearing mice. USP1-mediated protein stabilization promotes GSC maintenance and treatment resistance, thereby providing a rationale for USP1 inhibition as a potential therapeutic approach against GBM.
Lee, Yu-Shang	Neurosciences	29402167	28827771	27502766	26426529	26384335	25769013	24959867	24937795	24017996	23804083	Spinal cord injury (SCI) causes impaired neuronal function with associated deficits in the musculoskeletal system, which can lead to permanent disability. Here, the impact of SCI on in vivo musculoskeletal adaptation was determined by studying deficits in locomotor function and analyzing changes that occur in the muscle and bone compartments within the rat hindlimb after contusion or transection SCI. Analyses of locomotor patterns, as assessed via the Basso, Beattie, and Bresnahan (BBB) rating scale, revealed that transection animals showed significant deficits, while the contusion group had moderate deficits, compared with naïve groups. Muscle myofiber cross-sectional areas (CSA) of both the soleus and tibialis anterior muscles were significantly decreased three months after contusion SCI. Such decreases in CSA were even more dramatic in the transection SCI group, suggesting a dependence on muscle activity, which is further validated by the correlation analyses between BBB score and myofiber CSA. Bone compartment analyses, however, revealed that transection animals showed the most significant deficits, while contusion animals showed no significant differences in the trabecular bone content within the proximal tibia compartment. In general, values of bone volume per total bone volume (BV/TV) were similar across the SCI groups. Significant decreases were observed, however, in the transection animals for bone mineral content, bone mineral density, and three-dimensional trabecular structure parameters (trabecular number, thickness, and spacing) compared with the naïve and contusion groups. Together, these findings suggest an altered musculoskeletal system can be correlated directly to motor dysfunctions seen after SCI.	Eight weeks post contusive spinal cord injury, we built a peripheral nerve graft bridge (PNG) through the cystic cavity and treated the graft/host interface with acidic fibroblast growth factor (aFGF) and chondroitinase ABC (ChABC). This combinatorial strategy remarkably enhanced integration between host astrocytes and graft Schwann cells, allowing for robust growth, especially of catecholaminergic axons, through the graft and back into the distal spinal cord. In the absence of aFGF+ChABC fewer catecholaminergic axons entered the graft, no axons exited, and Schwann cells and astrocytes failed to integrate. In sharp contrast with the acutely bridge-repaired cord, in the chronically repaired cord only low levels of serotonergic axons regenerated into the graft, with no evidence of re-entry back into the spinal cord. The failure of axons to regenerate was strongly correlated with a dramatic increase of SOCS3 expression. While regeneration was more limited overall than at acute stages, our combinatorial strategy in the chronically injured animals prevented a decline in locomotor behavior and bladder physiology outcomes associated with an invasive repair strategy. These results indicate that PNG+aFGF+ChABC treatment of the chronically contused spinal cord can provide a permissive substrate for the regeneration of certain neuronal populations that retain a growth potential over time, and lead to functional improvements.	Suppressor of cytokine signaling-3 (SOCS3) expression is induced by the Janus kinase (JAK)-signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) signaling pathway. SOCS3 then acts as a feedback inhibitor of JAK-STAT signaling. Previous studies have shown that knocking down SOCS3 in spinal cord neurons with Lentiviral delivery of SOCS3-targeting shRNA (shSOCS3) increased spinal cord injury (SCI)-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT3 (P-STAT3 Tyr), which in part contributed to decreased neuronal death and demyelination as well as enhanced dendritic regeneration and protection of neuronal morphology after SCI. However, the role of serine phosphorylation of STAT3 (P-STAT3 Ser) is in large part undetermined. Our purposes of this study were to evaluate the expression patterns of P-STAT3 Ser and to explore the possible role of SOCS3 in the regulation of P-STAT3 Ser expression. Immunoblot analyses demonstrated that Oncostatin M (OSM), a member of the interleukin-6 (IL-6) cytokine family, induced both P-STAT3 Tyr and P-STAT3 Ser in SH-SY5Y cells. Subcellular fractionation further revealed that P-STAT3 Ser was localized in mitochondria. Overexpression of SOCS3 with a Lentivirus-mediated approach in SH-SY5Y cells inhibited OSM-induced P-STAT3 Ser in both cytosol and mitochondria fractions. In contrast, OSM-induced P-STAT3 Ser was further upregulated in both cytosol and mitochondria when SOCS3 was knocked down by Lentivirus-delivered shSOCS3. Using a rat T8 spinal cord complete transection model, we found that SCI induced upregulation of P-STAT3 Ser in the mitochondria of macrophages/microglia and neurons both rostral and caudal to the injury site of spinal cord. Collectively, these results suggest that SOCS3 regulation of STAT3 signaling plays critical roles in stress conditions.	The loss of lower urinary tract (LUT) control is a ubiquitous consequence of a complete spinal cord injury, attributed to a lack of regeneration of supraspinal pathways controlling the bladder. Previous work in our lab has utilized a combinatorial therapy of peripheral nerve autografts (PNG), acidic fibroblast growth factor (aFGF), and chondroitinase ABC (ChABC) to treat a complete T8 spinal cord transection in the adult rat, resulting in supraspinal control of bladder function. In the present study we extended these findings by examining the use of the combinatorial PNG+aFGF+ChABC treatment in a T8 transected mouse model, which more closely models human urinary deficits following spinal cord injury. Cystometry analysis and external urethral sphincter electromyograms reveal that treatment with PNG+aFGF+ChABC reduced bladder weight, improved bladder and external urethral sphincter histology, and significantly enhanced LUT function, resulting in more efficient voiding. Treated mice's injured spinal cord also showed a reduction in collagen scaring, and regeneration of serotonergic and tyrosine hydroxylase-positive axons across the lesion and into the distal spinal cord. Regeneration of serotonin axons correlated with LUT recovery. These results suggest that our mouse model of LUT dysfunction recapitulates the results found in the rat model and may be used to further investigate genetic contributions to regeneration failure. 	Suppressors of cytokine signaling-3 (SOCS3) is associated with limitations of nerve growth capacity after injury to the central nervous system. Although genetic manipulations of SOCS3 can enhance axonal regeneration after optic injury, the role of SOCS3 in dendritic outgrowth after spinal cord injury (SCI) is still unclear. The present study investigated the endogenous expression of SOCS3 and its role in regulating neurite outgrowth in vitro. Interleukin-6 (IL-6) induces SOCS3 expression at the mRNA and protein levels in neuroscreen-1 (NS-1) cells. In parallel to SOCS3 expression, IL-6 induced tyrosine phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) in NS-1 cells. Lentiviral delivery of short hairpin RNA (shSOCS3) (Lenti-shSOCS3) to decrease SOCS3 expression into NS-1 cells enhanced IL-6-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT3 (P-STAT3 Tyr705) and promoted neurite outgrowth. In addition, we determined if reduction of SOCS3 expression by microinjection of Lenti-shSOCS3 into spinal cord enhances dendrite outgrowth in spinal cord neurons after SCI. Knocking down of SOCS3 in spinal cord neurons with Lenti-shSOCS3 increased complete SCI-induced P-STAT3 Tyr705. Immunohistochemical analysis showed that complete SCI induced a significant reduction of microtubule association protein 2-positive (MAP-2+) dendrites in the gray and white matter at 1 and 4 weeks after injury. The SCI-induced reduction of MAP-2+ dendrites was inhibited by infection with Lenti-shSOCS3 in areas both rostral and caudal to the lesion at 1 and 4 weeks after complete SCI. Furthermore, shSOCS3 treatment enhanced up-regulation of growth associated protein-43 (GAP-43) expression, which co-localized with MAP-2+ dendrites in white matter and with MAP-2+ cell bodies in gray matter, indicating Lenti-shSOCS3 may induce dendritic regeneration after SCI. Moreover, we demonstrated that Lenti-shSOCS3 decreased SCI-induced demyelination in white matter of spinal cord both rostral and caudal to the injury site 1 week post-injury, but not rostral to the injury at 4 weeks post-injury. Importantly, similar effects as Lenti-shSOCS3 on increasing MAP-2+ intensity and dendrite length, and preventing demyelination were observed when a second shSOCS3 (Lenti-shSOCS3 #2) was applied to rule out the possibilities of off target effects of shRNA. Collectively, these results suggest that knocking down of SOCS3 enhances dendritic regeneration and prevents demyelination after SCI. 	Magnetic stimulation (MS) is a potential treatment for neuropsychiatric disorders. This study investigates whether MS-regulated neuronal activity can translate to specific changes in neuronal arborization and thus regulate synaptic activity and function. To test our hypotheses, we examined the effects of MS on neurite growth of neuroscreen-1 (NS-1) cells over the pulse frequencies of 1, 5 and 10 Hz at field intensities controlled via machine output (MO). Cells were treated with either 30% or 40% MO. Due to the nature of circular MS coils, the center region of the gridded coverslip (zone 1) received minimal (∼5%) electromagnetic current density while the remaining area (zone 2) received maximal (∼95%) current density. Plated NS-1 cells were exposed to MS twice per day for three days and then evaluated for length and number of neurites and expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). We show that MS dramatically affects the growth of the longest neurites (axon-like) but does not significantly affect the growth of shorter neurites (dendrite-like). Also, MS-induced changes in the longest neurite growth were most evident in zone 1, but not in zone 2. MS effects were intensity-dependent and were most evident in bolstering longest neurite outgrowth, best seen in the 10 Hz MS group. Furthermore, we found that MS-increased BDNF expression and secretion was also frequency-dependent. Taken together, our results show that MS exerts distinct effects when different frequencies and intensities are applied to the neuritic compartments (longest neurite versus shorter dendrite(s)) of NS-1 cells. These findings support the concept that MS increases BDNF expression and signaling, which sculpts longest neurite arborization and connectivity by which neuronal activity is regulated. Understanding the mechanisms underlying MS is crucial for efficiently incorporating its use into potential therapeutic strategies.	The present study investigates the endogenous expression of Suppressor of Cytokine Signaling-3 (SOCS3) after spinal cord injury (SCI) and its effect on SCI-induced cell death in vivo. In addition, we determined whether a reduction of SOCS3 expression induced by microinjection of short hairpin RNA (shSOCS3) carried by lentivirus into spinal cord provides cellular protection after SCI. We demonstrated that complete transection of rat T8 spinal cord induced SOCS3 expression at the mRNA and protein levels as early as 2days post-injury, which was maintained up to 14days. SOCS3 immunoreactivity was detected in neurons and activated microglia after SCI. We also demonstrated that SCI induces phosphorylation of proteins that are involved in signal transduction and transcription-3 (STAT3) in neurons, which induced SOCS3 expression. Western blot analyses and double-immunofluorescent staining showed significant up-regulation of the pro-apoptotic protein Bax, increases in the ratio of Bax to the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2, and up-regulation of cleaved caspase-3 in neurons. Treatment with shSOCS3 inhibited SCI-induced mRNA expression of SOCS3 2days post-injury and suppressed SCI-induced Bax expression 7days after SCI, both rostral and caudal to the lesion. Moreover, treatment with shSOCS3 inhibited SCI-induced neuronal death and protected neuronal morphology both rostral and caudal to the injury site 7days post-injury. Our results suggest that the STAT3/SOCS3 signaling pathway plays an important role in regulating neuronal death after SCI. 	Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) has been shown to modulate multiple brain functions, warranting further exploration in clinical applications. TMS treatment for epilepsy is particularly promising because of its anti-convulsive capabilities. However, TMS has been found to both inhibit and facilitate various experimental and clinical seizures, depending on the TMS parameters used. Repetitive TMS (rTMS) pulse frequency is recognized as one of the most influential parameters and thus was investigated in this study at 1, 5 and 10 Hz for its effects on a rat model of penicillin-induced seizures. High-dose penicillin-induced seizures were characterized by a combination of myoclonic and tonic-clonic (GTC) seizures. rTMS effects were analyzed with intracranial electroencephalographic (iEEG) data and video-captured behaviors. Animals treated with 1 and 5 Hz consistently showed evidence of anti-convulsive properties in their iEEG-based seizure profiles when compared to sham rTMS treatment. In contrast, data from 10 Hz rTMS suggested facilitative characteristics. Our results showed that 5 Hz rTMS consistently outperformed 1 Hz rTMS in seizure suppression. This re-emphasizes the importance in accurately characterizing TMS effects on seizure suppression due to the heterogeneous nature of seizures. Thus, finely tuned TMS treatment has great potential to become a powerful asset in combating epilepsy.	This study investigated whether animals sustaining experimental damage to the basal forebrain cholinergic system would benefit from treatment with exogenous neurotrophic factors. Specifically, we set out to determine whether neurotrophic factors would rescue damaged cholinergic neurons and improve behavioral performance on a spatial learning and memory task. Adult rats received bilateral injections of either saline (controls) or 192 IgG-saporin to damage basal forebrain cholinergic neurons (BFCNs). Two weeks later, animals received implants of an Alzet mini-pump connected to cannulae implanted bilaterally in the lateral ventricles. Animals received infusions of nerve growth factor (NGF), neurotrophin 3 (NT3), a combination of NGF and NT3, or a saline control over a 4-week period. Compared to saline-treated controls, animals sustaining saporin-induced damage to BFCNs took significantly more trials to learn a delayed match to position task and also performed more poorly on subsequent tests, with increasing delays between test runs. In contrast, animals infused with neurotrophins after saporin treatment performed significantly better than animals receiving saline infusions; no differences were detected for performance scores among animals infused with NGF, NT3, or a combination of NGF and NT3. Studies of ChAT immunnocytochemical labeling of BFCNs revealed a reduction in the numbers of ChAT-positive neurons in septum, nucleus of diagonal band, and nucleus basalis in animals treated with saporin followed by saline infusions, whereas animals treated with infusions of NGF, NT3 or a combination of NGF and NT3 showed only modest reductions in ChAT-positive neurons. Together, these data support the notion that administration of neurotrophic factors can rescue basal forebrain cholinergic neurons and improve learning and memory performance in rats.	A life-threatening disability after complete spinal cord injury is urinary dysfunction, which is attributable to lack of regeneration of supraspinal pathways that control the bladder. Although numerous strategies have been proposed that can promote the regrowth of severed axons in the adult CNS, at present, the approaches by which this can be accomplished after complete cord transection are quite limited. In the present study, we modified a classic peripheral nerve grafting technique with the use of chondroitinase to facilitate the regeneration of axons across and beyond an extensive thoracic spinal cord transection lesion in adult rats. The novel combination treatment allows for remarkably lengthy regeneration of certain subtypes of brainstem and propriospinal axons across the injury site and is followed by markedly improved urinary function. Our studies provide evidence that an enhanced nerve grafting strategy represents a potential regenerative treatment after severe spinal cord injury. 
Li, Xiaojuan	Biomedical Engineering	28019053	28714169	29364702	28823880	28978352	27661002	25865349	26050865	26608949	25761416	Cartilage loss is irreversible, and to date, no effective pharmacotherapies are available to protect or regenerate cartilage. Quantitative prestructural/compositional MR imaging techniques have been developed to characterize the cartilage matrix quality at a stage where abnormal findings are early and potentially reversible, allowing intervention to halt disease progression. The goal of this article is to critically review currently available technologies, present the basic concept behind these techniques, but also to investigate their suitability as imaging biomarkers including their validity, reproducibility, risk prediction and monitoring of therapy. Moreover, we highlighted important clinical applications. This review article focuses on the currently most relevant and clinically applicable technologies, such as T2 mapping, T2*, T1ρ, delayed gadolinium enhanced MRI of cartilage (dGEMRIC), sodium imaging and glycosaminoglycan chemical exchange saturation transfer (gagCEST). To date, most information is available for T2 and T1ρ mapping. dGEMRIC has also been used in multiple clinical studies, although it requires Gd contrast administration. Sodium imaging and gagCEST are promising technologies but are dependent on high field strength and sophisticated software and hardware. 5 J. Magn. Reson. Imaging 2017;45:949-965.	To develop a novel technique for reliable quantification of bone marrow fat content and composition using in vivo MR spectroscopy (MRS). An MRS quantification method combining both advantages of Voigt line shape model and time-domain analysis was developed. The proposed method was tested using computer-simulated data and in vivo data acquired at lumbar vertebral bodies of 23 subjects (age, 83.8 ± 3.7 y; male, n = 13; female, n = 10) from L1 to L4. Reliability and reproducibility were calculated for the quantification results. Comparisons between the proposed method and some conventional methods were conducted. Low mean absolute percentage errors and low mean coefficients of variation for computer simulations suggest that the proposed method is accurate and precise. By using this method, marrow fat content can be quantified reliably, even for data with low spectral resolution and low signal-to-noise ratio (SNR). Unsaturation level can be reliably quantified for data with moderate spectral resolution and moderate SNR. Results obtained from in vivo data using the proposed method demonstrated better model fit than conventional methods. The method proposed in this study has better performance than conventional methods in the quantification of bone marrow MRS data and has great potential for wide applications of studying marrow fat content and composition. Magn Reson Med 79:1722-1729, 2018. © 2017 International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine.	Anterior cruciate ligament tears can lead to posttraumatic osteoarthritis. In addition to biomechanical factors, changes in biochemical profiles within the knee joint after injury and anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) may play a role in accelerating joint degeneration. Hypothesis/Purpose: It was hypothesized that cartilage matrix composition after ACLR is associated with the degree of inflammatory response after initial injury. This study evaluated the association between the inflammatory response after injury-as indicated by cytokine, metalloproteinase, and cartilage degradation marker concentrations in synovial fluid-and articular cartilage degeneration, measured by T1ρ and T2 quantitative magnetic resonance imaging up to 3 years after ACLR. Cohort study; Level of evidence, 2. Twenty-six subjects from a longitudinal cohort study who underwent ACLR at a mean 8.5 weeks after injury (range, 4-19 weeks) had synovial fluid aspirated at the time of surgery. Immunoassays quantified biomarkers in synovial fluid. T1ρ and T2 values of articular cartilage were calculated with magnetic resonance scans acquired prior to surgery and at 6 months and 1, 2, and 3 years after surgery. Pearson correlation coefficients were calculated among the various biomarkers. K-means clustering was used to group subjects with similar biomarker profiles. Generalized estimating equations were used to find the overall differences in T1ρ and T2 values throughout these first 3 years after surgery between the clusters while controlling for other factors. Significant and strong correlations were observed between several cytokines (interleukin 6 [IL-6], IL-8, IL-10, and tumor necrosis factor α) and 2 matrix metalloproteinases (MMP-1 and MMP-3) ( P &lt; .05). Moderate correlations were found among combinations of C-terminal crosslinked telopeptide type II collagen, N-terminal telopeptide, cartilage oligomeric matrix protein, and sulfated glycosaminoglycan ( P &lt; .05). Two clusters were generated, 1 of which was characterized by lower concentrations of cytokines (IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, tumor necrosis factor α) and MMP-1 and MMP-3 and higher sulfated glycosaminoglycan. This cluster was associated with significantly higher T1ρ and T2 values in the medial tibial and patellar cartilage over the first 3 years after ACLR. At the time of ACLR surgery, profiles of synovial fluid inflammatory cytokines, degradative enzymes, and cartilage breakdown products show promise as predictors of abnormal cartilage tissue integrity (increased T1ρ and T2 values) throughout the first 3 years after surgery. The results suggest an intricate relationship between inflammation and cartilage turnover, which can in turn be influenced by timing after injury and patient factors.	There are increasing evidences suggesting bone marrow adiposity tissue (MAT) plays a critical role in affecting both bone quantity and quality. However, very limited studies that have investigated the association between the composition of MAT and bone mineral density (BMD). The goal of this study was to quantify MAT unsaturation profile of marrow samples from post-menopausal women using ex vivo high-resolution magic angle spinning (HRMAS) proton nuclear magnetic resonance (<sup>1</sup>H NMR) spectroscopy, and to investigate the relationship between MAT composition and BMD. Bone marrow samples were obtained by iliac crest aspiration during surgical procedures from 24 postmenopausal women (65-89years) who had hip surgery due to bone fracture or arthroplasty. Marrow fat composition parameters, in particular, unsaturation level (UL), mono-unsaturation level (MUL) and saturation level (SL), were quantified using HRMAS <sup>1</sup>H NMR spectroscopy. The patients were classified into three groups based on the DXA BMD T-scores: controls, osteopenia and osteoporosis. Marrow fat composition was compared between these three groups as well as between subjects with and without factures using ANOCOVA, adjusted for age. Subjects with lower BMD (n=17) had significantly lower MUL (P=0.003) and UL (P=0.039), and significantly higher SL (P=0.039) compared to controls (n=7). When separating lower BMD into osteopenia (n=9) and osteoporosis (n=8) groups, subjects with osteopenia had significantly lower MUL (P=0.002) and UL (P=0.010), and significantly higher SL (P=0.010) compared to healthy controls. No significant difference was observed between subjects with osteopenia and osteoporosis. Using HRMAS <sup>1</sup>H NMR, significantly lower unsaturation and significantly higher saturation levels were observed in the marrow fat of subjects with lower BMD. HRMAS <sup>1</sup>H NMR was shown to be a powerful tool for identifying novel MR markers of marrow fat composition that are associated with bone quality and potentially fracture, and other bone pathologies and changes after treatment. A better understanding of the relationship between bone marrow composition and bone quality in humans may identify novel treatment targets, and provide guidance on novel interventions and therapeutic strategies for bone preservation.	Although one study showed minimal progression of erosions in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) one year after TNFα inhibition therapy, no studies have investigated very early bone changes after initiation of anti-TNFα treatment. We investigated the effects of 3-month anti-TNFα treatment on bone erosion progression and bone microarchitecture in RA patients using high-resolution peripheral quantitative computed tomography (HR-pQCT). Patients with RA (n = 27) (17 in the anti-TNFα and 10 in the MTX-only group) underwent assessment of disease activity score in 28 joints (DAS-28), radiographs, 3-T magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and HR-pQCT of metacarpophalangeal and wrist joints at baseline and 3 months. HR-pQCT-derived erosion volume, joint volume/width and bone microarchitecture were computed and joint destruction was assessed using Sharp and RAMRIS scorings on radiographs and MRI, respectively. Overall, 73 erosions were identified by HR-pQCT at baseline. Over 3 months, the anti-TNFα group had decreased mean erosion volume; increased erosion volume was observed in one clinical non-responder. The MTX-only group in contrast, trended toward increasing erosion volume despite low disease activity. In the anti-TNFα group, joint-space width and volume of MCP joints decreased significantly and was positively correlated with erosion volume changes (R <sup>2</sup> = 0.311, p = 0.013; R <sup>2</sup> = 0.527, p = 0.003, respectively). In addition, erosion volume changes were significantly negatively correlated with changes in trabecular bone mineral density (R <sup>2</sup> = 0.353, p = 0.020) in this group. We observed significant correlation between percentage change in erosion volume and change in DAS-28 erythrocyte sedimentation rate and C-reactive protein CRP scores (R <sup>2</sup> = 0.558, p &lt; 0.001; R <sup>2</sup> = 0.745, p &lt; 0.001, respectively) in all patients. Using HR-pQCT, our data suggest that anti-TNFα treatment prevents erosion progression and deterioration of bone microarchitecture within the first 3 months of treatment, one patient not responding to treatment, had significant progression of bone erosions within this short time period. Patients with low disease activity scores (&lt;3.2) can have continuous HR-pQCT-detectable progression of erosive disease with MTX treatment only. HR-pQCT can be a sensitive, powerful tool to quantify bone changes and monitor RA treatment short term (such as 3 months).	To evaluate the feasibility of MR T1ρ in assessing radiocarpal cartilage matrix changes following rheumatoid arthritis (RA) treatment. Five healthy controls and nine RA patients were studied: three RA patients with low disease activity that were treated with methotrexate (MTX) alone and six with active disease despite MTX treatment who were additionally treated with certolizumab pegol, an anti-tumor necrosis factor biologic. Wrist 3 Tesla MRI were acquired at baseline and 3-month follow-up. T1ρ were quantified for lunar, radius, and scaphoid cartilage. Reproducibility was evaluated using coefficients of variation (CV). Longitudinal changes were evaluated with t-test and relationships between T1ρ with clinical, MRI, and patient-reported outcomes were evaluated with Spearman's rho. Scan/re-scan CVs of T1ρ values were all &lt;5%, and intra- and inter-reader CVs were all &lt; 2.0%. Baseline scaphoid T1ρ values were significantly higher in RA patients compared with healthy controls (P = 0.032). Changes in T1ρ (baseline, 3-month) were correlated with EULAR treatment response criteria: -2.26 ± 0.75 ms, 1.08 ± 0.52 ms, and 2.18 ± 0.45 ms for good, moderate, and nonresponders, respectively. Significant correlations were found between changes in global T1ρ values and changes in DAS28-CRP (rs = 0.683; P = 0.042), MHQ (rs = -0.783; P = 0.013), and HAQ (rs = 0.833; P = 0.010). Despite the limited sample size and follow-up time points, there were significant correlations between changes in radiocarpal T1ρ and changes in disease activity as assessed by clinical and patient-reported outcomes. Our findings encourage further research into MR T1ρ assessment of RA disease activity and treatment response. 1 J. MAGN. RESON. IMAGING 2017;45:1514-1522.	The objectives of this study were: (i) to develop a standardized method of quantifying bone mineral density (BMD) and microarchitecture in the hand and wrist bones of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) using high resolution- peripheral quantitative computed tomography (HR-pQCT); (ii) to compare quantitative bone parameters between RA and post-menopausal osteopenic (PM-OP) subjects; and (iii) to correlate quantitative bone parameters at the distal radius with those at the metacarpal heads in RA subjects. HR-pQCT imaging of the dominant hand and wrist was performed in 12 female RA patients. BMD and trabecular parameters for the 2-12% head region of the second and third metacarpals were calculated and compared between RA patients and healthy controls. Bone parameters were also calculated for 110 slices of the distal radius in RA patients and compared to data from controls and PM-OP women from a previous study. Compared to controls, RA patients had significantly decreased BMD, trabecular volume and number, and increased trabecular heterogeneity in the third metacarpal and distal radius. Significantly lower trabecular number and significantly higher ratio of outer annular trabecular BMD to inner trabecular BMD were observed in patients with RA, compared to patients with osteopenia (P &lt; 0.05). Trabecular BMD in the third metacarpal and in the distal radius were significantly correlated (ρ = 0.918, P &lt; 0.0001) in RA patients. This study established a standardized method for quantifying bone density and trabecular properties in the hand and wrist bones of RA patients using HR-pQCT. Deterioration of bone structure in RA patients was found comparable to that in osteopenic women, and trabecular bone loss near affected joints was found to be correlated with bone loss away from joints.	The aim of this study is to develop a novel 3D magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-based Statistical Shape Modeling (SSM) and apply it in knee MRIs in order to extract and compare relevant shapes of the tibia and femur in patients with and without acute Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries. Bilateral MR images were acquired and analyzed for 50 patients with acute ACL injuries and for 19 control subjects. A shape model was extracted for the tibia and femur using an SSM algorithm based on a set of matched landmarks that are computed in a fully automatic manner. Shape differences were detected between the knees in the ACL-injury group and control group, suggesting a common shape feature that may predispose these knees to injury. Some of the detected shape features that discriminate between injured and control knees are related to intercondylar width and posterior tibia slope, features that have been suggested in previous studies as ACL morphological risk factors. However, shape modeling has the great potential to quantify these characteristics with a comprehensive description of the surfaces describing complex 3D deformation that cannot be represented with simple geometric indexes. 3D MRI-based bone shape quantification has the ability to identify specific anatomic risk factors for ACL injury. A better understanding of the role in bony shape on ligamentous injuries could help in the identification of subjects with an increased risk for an ACL tear and to develop targeted prevention strategies, including education and training.	This study is to evaluate highly accelerated three-dimensional (3D) dynamic contrast-enhanced (DCE) wrist MRI for assessment of perfusion in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients. A pseudo-random variable-density undersampling strategy, circular Cartesian undersampling (CIRCUS), was combined with k-t SPARSE-SENSE reconstruction to achieve a highly accelerated 3D DCE wrist MRI. Two healthy volunteers and 10 RA patients were studied. Two patients were on methotrexate (MTX) only (Group I) and the other eight were treated with a combination therapy of MTX and anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF) therapy (Group II). Patients were scanned at baseline and 3 month follow-up. DCE MR images were used to evaluate perfusion in synovitis and bone marrow edema pattern in the RA wrist joints. A series of perfusion parameters was derived and compared with clinical disease activity scores of 28 joints (DAS28). 3D DCE wrist MR images were obtained with a spatial resolution of 0.3 × 0.3 × 1.5 mm(3) and temporal resolution of 5 s (with an acceleration factor of 20). The derived perfusion parameters, most notably transition time (dT) of synovitis, showed significant negative correlations with DAS28-ESR (r = -0.80, p &lt; 0.05) and DAS28-CRP (r = -0.87, p &lt; 0.05) at baseline and also correlated significantly with treatment responses evaluated by clinical score changes between baseline and 3 month follow-up (with DAS28-ESR r = -0.79, p &lt; 0.05, and DAS28-CRP r = -0.82, p &lt; 0.05). Highly accelerated 3D DCE wrist MRI with improved temporospatial resolution has been achieved in RA patients and provides accurate assessment of neovascularization and perfusion in RA joints, showing promise as a potential tool for evaluating treatment responses.	Osteoarthritis (OA) is a common multifactorial and heterogeneous degenerative joint disease, and biochemical changes in cartilage matrix occur during the early stages of OA before morphological changes occur. Thus, it is desired to measure regional biochemical changes in the joint. High-resolution magic angle spinning (HRMAS) NMR spectroscopy is a powerful method of observing cartilaginous biochemical changes ex vivo, including the concentrations of alanine and N-acetyl, which are markers of collagen and total proteoglycan content, respectively. Previous studies have observed significant changes in chondrocyte metabolism of OA cartilage via the altered gene expression profiles of ACAN, COL2A1 and MMP13, which encode aggrecan, type II collagen and matrix metalloproteinase 13 (a protein crucial in the degradation of type II collagen), respectively. Employing HRMAS, this study aimed to elucidate potential relationships between N-acetyl and/or alanine and ACAN, COL2A1 and/or MMP13 expression profiles in OA cartilage. Thirty samples from the condyles of five subjects undergoing total knee arthroplasty to treat OA were collected. HRMAS spectra were obtained at 11.7 T for each sample. RNA was subsequently extracted to determine gene expression profiles. A significant negative correlation between N-acetyl metabolite and ACAN gene expression levels was observed; this provides further evidence of N-acetyl as a biomarker of cartilage degeneration. The alanine doublet was distinguished in the spectra of 15 of the 30 specimens of this study. Alanine can only be detected with HRMAS NMR spectroscopy when the collagen framework has been degraded such that alanine is sufficiently mobile to form a distinguished peak in the spectrum. Thus, HRMAS NMR spectroscopy may provide unique localized measurements of collagenous degeneration in OA cartilage. The identification of imaging markers that could provide a link between OA pathology and chondrocyte metabolism will facilitate the development of more sensitive diagnostic techniques and will improve methods of monitoring treatment for patients suffering from OA.
Li, Xiaoxia	Inflammation and Immunity	30683702	30578323	30372424	30352854	30013031	29563620	29070673	28990926	28561022	28223414	IL-17A is a critical proinflammatory cytokine for the pathogenesis of asthma including neutrophilic pulmonary inflammation and airway hyperresponsiveness. In this study, by cell type-specific deletion of IL-17R and adaptor Act1, we demonstrated that IL-17R/Act1 exerts a direct impact on the contraction of airway smooth muscle cells (ASMCs). Mechanistically, IL-17A induced the recruitment of Rab35 (a small monomeric GTPase) and DennD1C (guanine nucleotide exchange factor [GEF]) to the IL-17R/Act1 complex in ASMCs, resulting in activation of Rab35. Rab35 knockdown showed that IL-17A-induced Rab35 activation was essential for protein kinase Cα (PKCα) activation and phosphorylation of fascin at Ser39 in ASMCs, allowing F-actin to interact with myosin to form stress fibers and enhance the contraction induced by methacholine. PKCα inhibitor or Rab35 knockdown indeed substantially reduced IL-17A-induced stress fiber formation in ASMCs and attenuated IL-17A-enhanced, methacholine-induced contraction of airway smooth muscle. Taken together, these data indicate that IL-17A promotes airway smooth muscle contraction via direct recruitment of Rab35 to IL-17R, followed by PKCα activation and stress fiber formation.	Lrig1 marks a distinct population of stem cells restricted to the upper pilosebaceous unit in normal epidermis. Here we report that IL-17A-mediated activation of EGFR plays a critical role in the expansion and migration of Lrig1<sup>+</sup> stem cells and their progenies in response to wounding, thereby promoting wound healing and skin tumorigenesis. Lrig1-specific deletion of the IL-17R adaptor Act1 or EGFR in mice impairs wound healing and reduces tumor formation. Mechanistically, IL-17R recruits EGFR for IL-17A-mediated signaling in Lrig1<sup>+</sup> stem cells. While TRAF4, enriched in Lrig1<sup>+</sup> stem cells, tethers IL-17RA and EGFR, Act1 recruits c-Src for IL-17A-induced EGFR transactivation and downstream activation of ERK5, which promotes the expansion and migration of Lrig1<sup>+</sup> stem cells. This study demonstrates that IL-17A activates the IL-17R-EGFR axis in Lrig1<sup>+</sup> stem cells linking wound healing to tumorigenesis.	NLRP3 inflammasome plays a critical spatiotemporal role in the pathogenesis of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). This study reports a mechanistic insight into noncanonical NLRP3 inflammasome activation in microglia for the effector stage of EAE. Microglia-specific deficiency of ASC (apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing a C-terminal caspase-activation and recruitment [CARD] domain) attenuated T cell expansion and neutrophil recruitment during EAE pathogenesis. Mechanistically, TLR stimulation led to IRAKM-caspase-8-ASC complex formation, resulting in the activation of caspase-8 and IL-1β release in microglia. Noncanonical inflammasome-derived IL-1β produced by microglia in the CNS helped to expand the microglia population in an autocrine manner and amplified the production of inflammatory cytokines/chemokines. Furthermore, active caspase-8 was markedly increased in the microglia in the brain tissue from patients with multiple sclerosis. Taken together, our study suggests that microglia-derived IL-1β via noncanonical caspase-8-dependent inflammasome is necessary for microglia to exert their pathogenic role during CNS inflammation.	The activation of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is crucial for triggering diverse cellular functions, including cell proliferation, migration, and differentiation, and up-regulation of EGFR expression or activity is a key factor in triggering the development of cancer. Here we show that overexpression of a scaffold protein, tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNF-R)-associated factor 4 (TRAF4), promotes EGF-induced autophosphorylation of EGFR (activation) and downstream signaling, whereas TRAF4 deficiency attenuates EGFR activation and EGF-driven cell proliferation. Using structure-based sequence alignment and NMR spectroscopy, we identified a TRAF4 binding site in the C-terminal half of the juxtamembrane (JM) segment of EGFR, a region known to promote asymmetric dimerization and subsequent activation. Deletion of the TRAF4 binding site led to dramatic defects in EGFR activation and EGF-driven cell proliferation. Specific point mutations in the TRAF4 binding site also resulted in significant attenuation of EGFR activation. Detailed structural examination of the inactive versus active forms of EGFR suggests that TRAF4 binding probably induces a conformational rearrangement of the JM region to promote EGFR dimerization. These results identify a novel mechanism of TRAF4-mediated EGFR activation and signaling.	Although Act1 (adaptor for IL-17 receptors) is necessary for IL-17-mediated inflammatory responses, Act1- (but not Il17ra-, Il17rc-, or Il17rb-) deficient mice develop spontaneous SLE- and Sjögren's-like diseases. Here, we show that Act1 functions as a negative regulator in T and B cells via direct inhibition of STAT3. Mass spectrometry analysis detected an Act1-STAT3 complex, deficiency of Act1 (but not Il17ra-, Il17rc-, or Il17rb) results in hyper IL-23- and IL-21-induced STAT3 activation in T and B cells, respectively. IL-23R deletion or blockade of IL-21 ameliorates SLE- and Sjögren's-like diseases in Act1<sup>-/-</sup> mice. Act1 deficiency results in hyperactivated follicular Th17 cells with elevated IL-21 expression, which promotes T-B cell interaction for B cell expansion and antibody production. Moreover, anti-IL-21 ameliorates the SLE- and Sjögren's-like diseases in Act1-deficient mice. Thus, IL-21 blocking antibody might be an effective therapy for treating SLE- and Sjögren's-like syndrome in patients containing Act1 mutation.	Mechanisms that degrade inflammatory mRNAs are well known; however, stabilizing mechanisms are poorly understood. Here, we show that Act1, an interleukin-17 (IL-17)-receptor-complex adaptor, binds and stabilizes mRNAs encoding key inflammatory proteins. The Act1 SEFIR domain binds a stem-loop structure, the SEFIR-binding element (SBE), in the 3' untranslated region (UTR) of Cxcl1 mRNA, encoding an inflammatory chemokine. mRNA-bound Act1 directs formation of three compartmentally distinct RNA-protein complexes (RNPs) that regulate three disparate events in inflammatory-mRNA metabolism: preventing mRNA decay in the nucleus, inhibiting mRNA decapping in P bodies and promoting translation. SBE RNA aptamers decreased IL-17-mediated mRNA stabilization in vitro, IL-17-induced skin inflammation and airway inflammation in a mouse asthma model, thus providing a therapeutic strategy for autoimmune diseases. These results reveal a network in which Act1 assembles RNPs on the 3' UTRs of select mRNAs and consequently controls receptor-mediated mRNA stabilization and translation during inflammation.	This study identifies a novel mechanism linking IL-17A with colon tissue repair and tumor development. Abrogation of IL-17A signaling in mice attenuated tissue repair of dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced damage in colon epithelium and markedly reduced tumor development in an azoxymethane/DSS model of colitis-associated cancer. A novel IL-17A target gene, PLET1 (a progenitor cell marker involved in wound healing), was highly induced in DSS-treated colon tissues and tumors in an IL-17RC-dependent manner. PLET1 expression was induced in LGR5<sup>+</sup> colon epithelial cells after DSS treatment. LGR5<sup>+</sup>PLET1<sup>+</sup> marks a highly proliferative cell population with enhanced expression of IL-17A target genes. PLET1 deficiency impaired tissue repair of DSS-induced damage in colon epithelium and reduced tumor formation in an azoxymethane/DSS model of colitis-associated cancer. Our results suggest that IL-17A-induced PLET1 expression contributes to tissue repair and colon tumorigenesis.	Expression of inflammatory genes is determined in part by post-transcriptional regulation of mRNA metabolism but how stimulus- and transcript-dependent nuclear export influence is poorly understood. Here, we report a novel pathway in which LPS/TLR4 engagement promotes nuclear localization of IRAK2 to facilitate nuclear export of a specific subset of inflammation-related mRNAs for translation in murine macrophages. IRAK2 kinase activity is required for LPS-induced RanBP2-mediated IRAK2 sumoylation and subsequent nuclear translocation. Array analysis showed that an SRSF1-binding motif is enriched in mRNAs dependent on IRAK2 for nuclear export. Nuclear IRAK2 phosphorylates SRSF1 to reduce its binding to target mRNAs, which promotes the RNA binding of the nuclear export adaptor ALYREF and nuclear export receptor Nxf1 loading for the export of the mRNAs. In summary, LPS activates a nuclear function of IRAK2 that facilitates the assembly of nuclear export machinery to export selected inflammatory mRNAs to the cytoplasm for translation.	NOTCH1 signalling contributes to defective remyelination by impairing differentiation of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs). Here we report that IL-17 stimulation induces NOTCH1 activation in OPCs, contributing to Th17-mediated demyelinating disease. Mechanistically, IL-17R interacts with NOTCH1 via the extracellular domain, which facilitates the cleavage of NOTHC1 intracellular domain (NICD1). IL-17-induced NOTCH1 activation results in the interaction of IL-17R adaptor Act1 with NICD1, followed by the translocation of the Act1-NICD1 complex into the nucleus. Act1-NICD1 are recruited to the promoters of several NOTCH1 target genes (including STEAP4, a metalloreductase important for inflammation and cell proliferation) that are specifically induced in the spinal cord by Th17 cells. A decoy peptide disrupting the IL-17RA-NOTCH1 interaction inhibits IL-17-induced NOTCH1 activation and attenuates Th17-mediated experimental autoimmune encephalitis (EAE). Taken together, these findings demonstrate critical crosstalk between the IL-17 and NOTCH1 pathway, regulating Th17-induced inflammatory and proliferative genes to promote demyelinating disease.	Cyanidin, a key flavonoid that is present in red berries and other fruits, attenuates the development of several diseases, including asthma, diabetes, atherosclerosis, and cancer, through its anti-inflammatory effects. We investigated the molecular basis of cyanidin action. Through a structure-based search for small molecules that inhibit signaling by the proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-17A (IL-17A), we found that cyanidin specifically recognizes an IL-17A binding site in the IL-17A receptor subunit (IL-17RA) and inhibits the IL-17A/IL-17RA interaction. Experiments with mice demonstrated that cyanidin inhibited IL-17A-induced skin hyperplasia, attenuated inflammation induced by IL-17-producing T helper 17 (TH17) cells (but not that induced by TH1 or TH2 cells), and alleviated airway hyperreactivity in models of steroid-resistant and severe asthma. Our findings uncover a previously uncharacterized molecular mechanism of action of cyanidin, which may inform its further development into an effective small-molecule drug for the treatment of IL-17A-dependent inflammatory diseases and cancer.
Li, Yong	Cancer Biology	30343114	30068361	29685162	29703722	29540832	28386133	27462406	25990308	26519132	30185897	Although epidemiologic studies have suggested a possible association between occupational exposures to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and the risk of development of multiple myeloma, definitive evidence in support of this association is lacking. In the present study, we employed the Vk*Myc mouse model of multiple myeloma to assess the impact of TCDD exposure on multiple myeloma pathogenesis. TCDD induced splenomegaly and multiple peripheral blood abnormalities, including anemia and high serum IgG levels. In addition, TCDD triggered bone lytic lesions, as well as renal tubular casts, a phenomenon associated with human myeloma kidney disease. Even in wild-type C57BL/6 mice, TCDD increased serum IgG levels, induced anemia, and increased plasma cell presence in the spleen and bone marrow, hallmarks of benign monoclonal gammopathy. Lastly, TCDD induced AKT activation and the DNA damage response, key pathogenic events in myeloma pathogenesis, in animal spleen and/or bone marrow. These data indicate that TCDD accelerates monoclonal gammopathy development and promotes progression to multiple myeloma in genetically-predisposed mice. This work offers the first direct experimental evidence establishing TCDD as an environmental risk factor for monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance and multiple myeloma.	Indoleamine 2, 3-dioxygenases (IDO1 and IDO2) and tryptophan 2, 3-dioxygenase (TDO) are tryptophan catabolic enzymes that catalyze the conversion of tryptophan into kynurenine. The depletion of tryptophan and the increase in kynurenine exert important immunosuppressive functions by activating T regulatory cells and myeloid-derived suppressor cells, suppressing the functions of effector T and natural killer cells, and promoting neovascularization of solid tumors. Targeting IDO1 represents a therapeutic opportunity in cancer immunotherapy beyond checkpoint blockade or adoptive transfer of chimeric antigen receptor T cells. In this review, we discuss the function of the IDO1 pathway in tumor progression and immune surveillance. We highlight recent preclinical and clinical progress in targeting the IDO1 pathway in cancer therapeutics, including peptide vaccines, expression inhibitors, enzymatic inhibitors, and effector inhibitors.	Indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1 (IDO1) catalyzes the first and rate-limiting step in converting tryptophan to kynurenine. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells are T cells with recombinant receptors targeting tumor-associated antigens. The Food and Drug Administration has approved CAR T cells that target CD19 for treatment of advanced B cell leukemia and lymphoma. However, CAR T cell therapy in solid tumors has been hampered by multiple obstacles. Preclinical and clinical studies suggest that combinatorial immune checkpoint blockade and IDO1 inhibition provide durable therapeutic efficacy against cancer. Yet, the combination of IDO1 inhibition and CAR T has not been attempted. We analyze IDO1 downregulation by miR-153 in colon cancer cells and the association of IDO1 and miR-153 expression with colorectal patient survival. We generate CAR T cells targeting the epidermal growth factor receptor variant III and measure their tumor killing effects against colon cancer cells with or without miR-153 overexpression by killing assays and in xenografts. IDO1 is highly expressed in colorectal tumors and is inversely associated with patient survival. miR-153 directly inhibits IDO1 expression by targeting its 3' untranslated region in colon cancer cells; yet, miR-153 overexpression does not affect cancer cell survival, apoptosis, and colony formation. When colon cancer cells are targeted by CAR T cells, miR-153 overexpression within tumor cells significantly enhances T cell killing in vitro and suppresses xenograft tumor growth in mice. These findings indicate that miR-153 inhibits IDO1 expression in colon cancer cells and is a tumor-suppressive miRNA that enhances CAR T cell immunotherapy. This study supports the combinatorial use of IDO1 inhibitors and CAR T cells in treating solid tumors.	Next-generation sequencing has revealed cancer genomic landscapes, in which over 100 driver genes that, when altered by intragenic mutations, can promote oncogenesis. MYD88 is a driver gene found in hematologic B-cell malignancies. A missense mutation (L265P) changing leucine at position 265 to proline in MYD88 is found in ∼90% of Waldenström macroglobulinemia (WM) cases and in significant portions of activated B-cell diffuse large B-cell lymphomas and IgM monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance. Few cancers such as WM have a single amino acid substitution in one gene like MYD88 L265P that occurs in ∼90% of cases, making WM paradigmatic for study of a single causative mutation in oncogenesis. In this review, we summarize the frequency and cancer spectrum of MYD88 L265P and its downstream effects in lymphoid cancers. Malignant B cells with MYD88 L265P are likely transformed from IgM-producing B cells either in response to T-cell-independent antigens or in response to protein antigens before class switching. We also discuss therapeutic strategies that include targeting Bruton tyrosine kinase and other kinases, interfering with the assembly of MYD88 and its interacting partners, and MYD88 L265P-specific peptide-based immunotherapy. Cancer Res; 78(10); 2457-62. ©2018 AACR.	MicroRNA-21 (miR-21) is one of the most abundant microRNAs in mammalian cells. It has been intensively studied for its role in regulating apoptosis and oncogenic transformation. However, the impact of miR-21 on host anti-tumor immunity remains unknown. Tumor-associated macrophages are a major leukocyte type that infiltrates tumors and predominantly develops into immunosuppressive, tumor-promoting M2-like macrophages. In contrast, the pro-inflammatory M1-like macrophages have tumoricidal activity. In this study, we show that genetic deficiency of miR-21 promotes the polarization of macrophages toward an M1-like phenotype in vivo and in vitro in the presence of tumor cells; thus it confers host mice with enhanced anti-tumor immunity. By downregulating JAK2 and STAT1, miR-21 inhibits the IFN-γ-induced STAT1 signaling pathway, which is required for macrophage M1 polarization. We also show that the expression of miR-21 in macrophages is regulated upon polarization stimuli as well as upon macrophages co-culturing with tumor cells. Thus, tumor cells may stimulate miR-21 expression in tumor-associated macrophages to prevent tumoricidal M1 polarization. However, augmented STAT1 signaling mediated by miR-21 deficiency upregulates PD-L1 expression in macrophages, which is known to inhibit phagocytic anti-tumor activity. This adverse effect can be alleviated by PD-1 blockade; indeed, miR-21 depletion in macrophages and PD-1 antibody treatment offer superior anti-tumor activity than either agent alone. These studies shed lights on potential application of the combination of miR-21 inhibition and immune checkpoint blockade to target the tumor microenvironment.	Colorectal cancer is a major cancer type worldwide. 5-fluorouracil, often given with leucovorin, is the most commonly used drug in colorectal cancer chemotherapy, yet development of drug resistance to 5-fluorouracil in colorectal cancer cells is the primary cause of chemotherapy failure. Most patients receiving intravenous 5-fluorouracil develop side effects. Leucovorin, due to its vitamin-like profile, has few side-effects. Drug repurposing is the application of approved drugs to treat new indications. In this study, we performed a novel drug-repurposing screening to identify Food and Drug Administration-approved chemotherapeutic compounds possessing synergistic activity with leucovorin against colorectal cancer cells. We found that the combination of bortezomib and leucovorin enhanced caspase activation and increased apoptosis in colorectal cancer cells better than either agent alone. Further, the synergistic induction of apoptosis and inhibition of tumor growth were also observed in mouse colorectal cancer xenografts. These data support leucovorin enhances the anti-cancer effect of bortezomib and present this novel combinatorial treatment against colorectal cancer.	Lung cancer and colorectal cancer account for over one-third of all cancer deaths in the United States. MicroRNA-301a (miR-301a) is an activator of both nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) and Stat3, and is overexpressed in both deadly malignancies. In this work, we show that genetic ablation of miR-301a reduces Kras-driven lung tumorigenesis in mice. And miR-301a deficiency protects animals from dextran sodium sulfate-induced colon inflammation and colitis-associated colon carcinogenesis. We also demonstrate that miR-301a deletion in bone marrow-derived cells attenuates tumor growth in the colon carcinogenesis model. Our findings ascertain that one microRNA-miR-301a-activates two major inflammatory pathways (NF-κB and Stat3) in vivo, generating a pro-inflammatory microenvironment that facilitates tumorigenesis. 	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) regulate apoptosis, yet their role in regulated necrosis remains unknown. miR-21 is overexpressed in nearly all human cancer types and its role as an oncogene is suggested to largely depend on its anti-apoptotic action. Here we show that miR-21 is overexpressed in a murine model of acute pancreatitis, a pathologic condition involving RIP3-dependent regulated necrosis (necroptosis). Therefore, we investigate the role of miR-21 in acute pancreatitis injury and necroptosis. miR-21 deficiency protects against caerulein- or L-arginine-induced acute pancreatitis in mice. miR-21 inhibition using locked-nucleic-acid-modified oligonucleotide effectively reduces pancreatitis severity. miR-21 deletion is also protective in tumour necrosis factor-induced systemic inflammatory response syndrome. These data suggest that miRNAs are critical participants in necroptosis and miR-21 enhances cellular necrosis by negatively regulating tumour suppressor genes associated with the death-receptor-mediated intrinsic apoptosis pathway, and could be a therapeutic target for preventing pathologic necrosis. 	To explore the role of amphiregulin in inflammatory epidermal hyperplasia, we overexpressed human AREG (hAREG) in FVB/N mice using a bovine K5 promoter. A construct containing AREG coding sequences flanked by 5' and 3' untranslated region sequences (AREG-UTR) led to a &gt;10-fold increase in hAREG expression compared to an otherwise-identical construct containing only the coding region (AREG-CDR). AREG-UTR mice developed tousled, greasy fur as well as elongated nails and thickened, erythematous tail skin. No such phenotype was evident in AREG-CDR mice. Histologically, AREG-UTR mice presented with marked epidermal hyperplasia of tail skin (2.1-fold increase in epidermal thickness with a 9.5-fold increase in Ki-67(+) cells) accompanied by significantly increased CD4+ T-cell infiltration. Dorsal skin of AREG-UTR mice manifested lesser but still significant increases in epidermal thickness and keratinocyte hyperplasia. AREG-UTR mice also developed marked and significant sebaceous gland enlargement, with corresponding increases in Ki-67(+) cells. To determine the response of AREG-UTR animals to a pro-inflammatory skin challenge, topical imiquimod (IMQ) or vehicle cream was applied to dorsal and tail skin. IMQ increased dorsal skin thickness similarly in both AREG-UTR and wild type mice (1.7- and 2.2-fold vs vehicle, P &lt; 0.001 each), but had no such effect on tail skin. These results confirm that keratinocyte expression of hAREG elicits inflammatory epidermal hyperplasia, and are consistent with prior reports of tail epidermal hyperplasia and increased sebaceous gland size in mice expressing human epigen. 	Arsenic is a well-known of human carcinogen and miR-301a is an oncogenic microRNA, which links to oncogenesis, however, little is understood about its contribution to arsenic-induced cellular transformation and tumorigenesis. Here, we investigated the role of miR-301a during arsenic-induced cellular transformation and tumor formation. miR-301a was found to be upregulated during arsenic-induced BEAS-2B transformation and the overexpression of miR-301a was dependent on IL-6/STAT3 signaling. Inhibition of miR-301a leads to reduction of cell proliferation, colony formation and cell migration. By using dual luciferase assay, SMAD4 was confirmed to be a direct target of miR-301a in BEAS-2B cells and upregulation of SMAD4 is involved the restraining cell growth and migration. In addition, reducing of miR-301a expression enhances doxorubicin-induced cellular apoptosis of transformed BEAS-2B through up-regulating SMAD4. Furthermore, we demonstrated that downregulation of miR-301a in BEAS-2B attenuates tumor growth in the xenograft model by targeting SMAD4. Of note, the level of miR-301a expression correlated inversely with SMAD4 expression in clinical specimens of human lung cancer. Our findings ascertain that miR-301a is an oncogenic miRNA, which targets SMAD4 to establish an essential mechanism for arsenic-induced carcinogenesis, IL-6/STAT3/miR-301a/SMAD4 signaling pathways.
Li, Zong-Ming	Biomedical Engineering	30336369	29678419	28824352	28824216	28343885	28073093	27401044	27074707	26953892	26662276	Carpal tunnel syndrome is a compression neuropathy at the wrist associated with compromised median nerve mobility. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of radioulnar wrist compression on median nerve longitudinal mobility within the carpal tunnel in carpal tunnel syndrome patients as well as healthy subjects. Dynamic ultrasound images captured longitudinal median nerve motion in the carpal tunnel during radioulnar wrist compression force application in 11 healthy subjects and 11 carpal tunnel syndrome patients. We found that median nerve mobility was not significantly affected by radioulnar wrist compression in healthy subjects (P = 0.34), but improved by 10 N radioulnar wrist compression in carpal tunnel syndrome patients (P &lt; 0.05). Analysis of segmental median nerve mobility in carpal tunnel syndrome patients showed significantly improved mobility in the proximal tunnel section under 10 N radioulnar wrist compression force condition compared to the no compression condition (P &lt; 0.05). Moderate radioulnar wrist compression force application helps restore impaired median nerve mobility and may be effective in improve nerve function and symptoms associated with carpal tunnel syndrome.	Mechanics of carpal tunnel soft tissue, such as fat, muscle and transverse carpal ligament (TCL), around the median nerve may render the median nerve vulnerable to compression neuropathy. The purpose of this study was to understand the roles of carpal tunnel soft tissue mechanical properties and intratunnel pressure on the TCL tensile strain and carpal arch area (CAA) using finite element analysis (FEA). Manual segmentation of the thenar muscles, skin, fat, TCL, hamate bone, and trapezium bone in the transverse plane at distal carpal tunnel were obtained from B-mode ultrasound images of one cadaveric hand. Sensitivity analyses were conducted to examine the dependence of TCL tensile strain and CAA on TCL elastic modulus (0.125-10 MPa volar-dorsally; 1.375-110 MPa transversely), skin-fat and thenar muscle initial shear modulus (1.6-160 kPa for skin-fat; 0.425-42.5 kPa for muscle), and intratunnel pressure (60-480 mmHg). Predictions of TCL tensile strain under different intratunnel pressures were validated with the experimental data obtained on the same cadaveric hand. Results showed that skin, fat and muscles had little effect on the TCL tensile strain and CAA changes. However, TCL tensile strain and CAA increased with decreased elastic modulus of TCL and increased intratunnel pressure. The TCL tensile strain and CAA increased linearly with increased pressure while increased exponentially with decreased elastic modulus of TCL. Softening the TCL by decreasing the elastic modulus may be an alternative clinical approach to carpal tunnel expansion to accommodate elevated intratunnel pressure and alleviate median nerve compression neuropathy.	Carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS), caused by entrapment of the median nerve in the carpal tunnel, impairs hand function including dexterous manipulation. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of CTS on force coordination and muscle coherence during low-intensity sustained precision pinch while the wrist assumed different postures. Twenty subjects (10 CTS patients and 10 asymptomatic controls) participated in this study. An instrumented pinch device was used to measure the thumb and index finger forces while simultaneously collecting surface electromyographic activities of the abductor pollicis brevis (APB) and first dorsal interosseous (FDI) muscles. Subjects performed a sustained precision pinch at 10% maximum pinch force for 15 sec with the wrist stabilized at 30° extension, neutral, or 30° flexion using customized splints. The force discrepancy and the force coordination angle between the thumb and index finger forces were calculated, as well as the β-band (15-30 Hz) coherence between APB and FDI. The index finger applied greater force than the thumb (p &lt; 0.05); this force discrepancy was increased with wrist flexion (p &lt; 0.05), but was not affected by CTS (p &gt; 0.05). The directional force coordination was not significantly affected by wrist posture or CTS (p &gt; 0.05). In general, digit force coordination during precision pinch seems to be sensitive to wrist flexion, but is not affected by CTS. The β-band muscular coherence was increased by wrist flexion for CTS patients (p &lt; 0.05), which could be a compensatory mechanism for the flexion-induced exacerbation of CTS symptoms. This study demonstrates that wrist flexion negatively influences muscle and force coordination in CTS patients supporting the avoidance of flexion posture for symptom exacerbation and functional performance.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the morphological and mechanical properties of the transverse carpal ligament (TCL) in patients with carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS). Thickness and stiffness of the TCL in eight female CTS patients and eight female control subjects were examined using ultrasound imaging modalities. CTS patients had a 30.9% thicker TCL than control subjects. There was no overall difference in TCL stiffness between the two groups, but the radial TCL region was significantly stiffer than the ulnar region within the CTS group and such a regional difference was not found for the controls. The increased thickness and localized stiffness of the TCL for CTS patients may contribute to CTS symptoms due to reduction in carpal tunnel space and compliance. Advancements in ultrasound technology provide a means of understanding CTS mechanisms and quantifying the morphological and mechanical properties of the TCL in vivo.	The fine-tuning of digit forces to object properties can be disrupted by carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS). CTS' effects on hand function have mainly been investigated using predictable manipulation tasks; however, unpredictable perturbations are commonly encountered during manual tasks, presenting situations which may be more challenging to CTS patients given their hand impairments. The purpose of this study was to investigate muscle and force responses of the index finger to unpredictable perturbations in patients with CTS. Nine CTS patients and nine asymptomatic controls were instructed to stop the movement of a sliding plate by increasing index finger force following an unexpected perturbation. The electrical activity of the first dorsal interosseous muscle and forces exerted by the index finger were recorded. CTS patients demonstrated 20.9% greater muscle response latency and 12.0% greater force response latency compared to controls (p&lt;0.05). The duration of plate sliding was significantly different between groups (p&lt;0.05); the CTS group's duration was 142.2±5.8ms compared to the control group's duration of 133.1±8.4ms. Although CTS patients had increased muscle and force response durations comparatively, these differences were not statistically significant. Findings from this study suggest CTS-induced sensorimotor deficits interfere with accurate detection, processing and response to unpredictable perturbations. These deficits could be accounted for at multiple levels of the peripheral and central nervous systems. Delayed and decreased responses may indicate inefficient object manipulation by CTS patients and may help to explain why CTS patients tend to drop objects.	Manipulating the carpal arch width (i.e. distance between hamate and trapezium bones) has been suggested as a means to increase carpal tunnel cross-sectional area and alleviate median nerve compression. The purpose of this study was to develop a finite element model of the carpal tunnel and to determine an optimal force direction to maximize area. A planar geometric model of carpal bones at hamate level was reconstructed from MRI with inter-carpal joint spaces filled with a linear elastic surrogate tissue. Experimental data with discrete carpal tunnel pressures (50, 100, 150, and 200mmHg) and corresponding carpal bone movements were used to obtain material property of surrogate tissue by inverse finite element analysis. The resulting model was used to simulate changes of carpal arch widths and areas with directional variations of a unit force applied at the hook of hamate. Inverse finite element model predicted the experimental area data within 1.5% error. Simulation of force applications showed that carpal arch width and area were dependent on the direction of force application, and minimal arch width and maximal area occurred at 138° (i.e. volar-radial direction) with respect to the hamate-to-trapezium axis. At this force direction, the width changed to 24.4mm from its initial 25.1mm (3% decrease), and the area changed to 301.6mm<sup>2</sup> from 290.3mm<sup>2</sup> (4% increase). The findings of the current study guide biomechanical manipulation to gain tunnel area increase, potentially helping reduce carpal tunnel pressure and relieve symptoms of compression median neuropathy.	The transverse carpal ligament (TCL) is a component of the flexor pulley system of the wrist, keeping the flexor tendons in place by resisting their volar displacement. The purpose of this study was to investigate the in vivo biomechanical interaction between the TCL and flexor tendons in response to tendon tensioning with the wrist at various postures. In eight healthy subjects, the flexor digitorum superficialis and profundus tendons were tensioned by isometrically applying loads (5, 10, and 15N) to the index finger while the wrist posture was at 20° extension, neutral, 20° flexion, and 40° flexion. The TCL and flexor tendons were imaged at the distal carpal tunnel cross section using ultrasound. The volar-dorsal positions of the tendons, TCL arch height, and TCL-tendon distances were calculated. With increasing wrist flexion, the flexor tendons moved volarly, the TCL arch height increased, and the TCL-tendon distances decreased, indicating that the flexor tendons contacted the TCL and pushed it volarly. The TCL-tendon interaction was amplified by the combination of finger loading and wrist flexion. This study provides in vivo evidence of the biomechanical interaction between the TCL and flexor tendons. Repetitive TCL-tendon interactions may implicate the interacting tissues and the median nerve resulting in tissue maladaptation and nerve compression.	Flexor retinaculum transection is a routine surgical treatment for carpal tunnel syndrome, yet the biomechanical and clinical sequelae of the procedure remain unclear. We investigated the effects of flexor retinaculum release on carpal tunnel structural compliance using cadaveric hands. The flexor retinaculum was incrementally and sequentially released with transections of 25, 50, 75, and 100 % of the transverse carpal ligament, followed by the distal aponeurosis and then the antebrachial fascia. Paired outward 10 N forces were applied to the insertion sites of the transverse carpal ligament at the distal (hamate-trapezium) and proximal (pisiform-scaphoid) levels of the carpal tunnel. Carpal tunnel compliance was defined as the change in carpal arch width normalized to the constant 10 N force. With the flexor retinaculum intact, carpal tunnel compliance at the proximal level, 0.696 ± 0.128 mm/N, was 13.6 times greater than that at the distal level, 0.056 ± 0.020 mm/N. Complete release of the transverse carpal ligament was required to achieve a significant gain in compliance at the distal level (p &lt; 0.05). Subsequent release of the distal aponeurosis resulted in an appreciable additional increase in compliance (43.0 %, p = 0.052) at the distal level, but a minimal increase (1.7 %, p = 0.987) at the proximal level. Complete flexor retinaculum release provided a significant gain in compliance relative to transverse carpal ligament release alone at both proximal and distal levels (p &lt; 0.05). Overall, complete flexor retinaculum release increased proximal compliance by 52 % and distal compliance by 332 %. The increase in carpal tunnel compliance with complete flexor retinaculum release helps explain the benefit of carpal tunnel release surgery for patients with carpal tunnel syndrome.	The transverse carpal ligament (TCL) plays a critical role in carpal tunnel biomechanics through interactions with its surrounding tissues. The purpose of this study was to investigate the in vivo adaptations of the TCL's mechanical properties in response to repetitive hand use in pianists using acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI) imaging. It was hypothesized that pianists, in comparison to non-pianists, would have a stiffer TCL as indicated by an increased acoustic shear wave velocity (SWV). ARFI imagining was performed for 10 female pianists and 10 female non-pianists. The median SWV values of the TCL were determined for the entire TCL, as well as for its radial and ulnar portions, rTCL and uTCL, respectively. The TCL SWV was significantly increased in pianists relative to non-pianists (p &lt; 0.05). Additionally, the increased SWV was location dependent for both pianist and non-pianist groups (p &lt; 0.05), with the rTCL having a significantly greater SWV than the uTCL. Between groups, the rTCL SWV of pianists was 22.2% greater than that of the non-pianists (p &lt; 0.001). This localized increase of TCL SWV, i.e. stiffening, may be primarily attributable to focal biomechanical interactions that occur at the radial TCL aspect where the thenar muscles are anchored. Progressive stiffening of the TCL may become constraining to the carpal tunnel, leading to median nerve compression in the tunnel. TCL maladaptation helps explain why populations who repeatedly use their hands are at an increased risk of developing musculoskeletal pathologies, e.g. carpal tunnel syndrome. 	The purpose of this study was to investigate the morphological changes of the carpal arch and median nerve during the application of radiounlarly directed compressive force across the wrist in patients with carpal tunnel syndrome. Radioulnar compressive forces of 10 N and 20 N were applied at the distal level of the carpal tunnel in 10 female patients diagnosed with carpal tunnel syndrome. Immediately prior to force application and after 3 min of application, ultrasound images of the distal carpal tunnel were obtained. It was found that applying force across the wrist decreased the carpal arch width (p &lt; 0.001) and resulted in increased carpal arch height (p &lt; 0.01), increased carpal arch curvature (p &lt; 0.001), and increased radial distribution of the carpal arch area (p &lt; 0.05). It was also shown that wrist compression reduced the flattening of the median nerve, as indicated by changes in the nerve's circularity and flattening ratio (p &lt; 0.001). This study demonstrated that the carpal arch can be non-invasively augmented by applying compressive force across the wrist, and that this strategy may decompress the median nerve providing symptom relief to patients with carpal tunnel syndrome. © 2015 Orthopaedic Research Society. Published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Orthop Res 34:1234-1240, 2016.
Lin, Ching-Yi	Neurosciences	29402167	25769013	24937795	22022865	18289871	16000124	12414990	10980193	30948495	29760195	Spinal cord injury (SCI) causes impaired neuronal function with associated deficits in the musculoskeletal system, which can lead to permanent disability. Here, the impact of SCI on in vivo musculoskeletal adaptation was determined by studying deficits in locomotor function and analyzing changes that occur in the muscle and bone compartments within the rat hindlimb after contusion or transection SCI. Analyses of locomotor patterns, as assessed via the Basso, Beattie, and Bresnahan (BBB) rating scale, revealed that transection animals showed significant deficits, while the contusion group had moderate deficits, compared with naïve groups. Muscle myofiber cross-sectional areas (CSA) of both the soleus and tibialis anterior muscles were significantly decreased three months after contusion SCI. Such decreases in CSA were even more dramatic in the transection SCI group, suggesting a dependence on muscle activity, which is further validated by the correlation analyses between BBB score and myofiber CSA. Bone compartment analyses, however, revealed that transection animals showed the most significant deficits, while contusion animals showed no significant differences in the trabecular bone content within the proximal tibia compartment. In general, values of bone volume per total bone volume (BV/TV) were similar across the SCI groups. Significant decreases were observed, however, in the transection animals for bone mineral content, bone mineral density, and three-dimensional trabecular structure parameters (trabecular number, thickness, and spacing) compared with the naïve and contusion groups. Together, these findings suggest an altered musculoskeletal system can be correlated directly to motor dysfunctions seen after SCI.	Magnetic stimulation (MS) is a potential treatment for neuropsychiatric disorders. This study investigates whether MS-regulated neuronal activity can translate to specific changes in neuronal arborization and thus regulate synaptic activity and function. To test our hypotheses, we examined the effects of MS on neurite growth of neuroscreen-1 (NS-1) cells over the pulse frequencies of 1, 5 and 10 Hz at field intensities controlled via machine output (MO). Cells were treated with either 30% or 40% MO. Due to the nature of circular MS coils, the center region of the gridded coverslip (zone 1) received minimal (∼5%) electromagnetic current density while the remaining area (zone 2) received maximal (∼95%) current density. Plated NS-1 cells were exposed to MS twice per day for three days and then evaluated for length and number of neurites and expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). We show that MS dramatically affects the growth of the longest neurites (axon-like) but does not significantly affect the growth of shorter neurites (dendrite-like). Also, MS-induced changes in the longest neurite growth were most evident in zone 1, but not in zone 2. MS effects were intensity-dependent and were most evident in bolstering longest neurite outgrowth, best seen in the 10 Hz MS group. Furthermore, we found that MS-increased BDNF expression and secretion was also frequency-dependent. Taken together, our results show that MS exerts distinct effects when different frequencies and intensities are applied to the neuritic compartments (longest neurite versus shorter dendrite(s)) of NS-1 cells. These findings support the concept that MS increases BDNF expression and signaling, which sculpts longest neurite arborization and connectivity by which neuronal activity is regulated. Understanding the mechanisms underlying MS is crucial for efficiently incorporating its use into potential therapeutic strategies.	Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) has been shown to modulate multiple brain functions, warranting further exploration in clinical applications. TMS treatment for epilepsy is particularly promising because of its anti-convulsive capabilities. However, TMS has been found to both inhibit and facilitate various experimental and clinical seizures, depending on the TMS parameters used. Repetitive TMS (rTMS) pulse frequency is recognized as one of the most influential parameters and thus was investigated in this study at 1, 5 and 10 Hz for its effects on a rat model of penicillin-induced seizures. High-dose penicillin-induced seizures were characterized by a combination of myoclonic and tonic-clonic (GTC) seizures. rTMS effects were analyzed with intracranial electroencephalographic (iEEG) data and video-captured behaviors. Animals treated with 1 and 5 Hz consistently showed evidence of anti-convulsive properties in their iEEG-based seizure profiles when compared to sham rTMS treatment. In contrast, data from 10 Hz rTMS suggested facilitative characteristics. Our results showed that 5 Hz rTMS consistently outperformed 1 Hz rTMS in seizure suppression. This re-emphasizes the importance in accurately characterizing TMS effects on seizure suppression due to the heterogeneous nature of seizures. Thus, finely tuned TMS treatment has great potential to become a powerful asset in combating epilepsy.	Chronic pain following spinal cord injury (SCI) is a highly prevalent clinical condition that is difficult to treat. Using both von Frey filaments and radiant infrared heat to assess mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia, respectively, we have demonstrated that a one-time injection of fibronectin (50 μg/mL) into the spinal dorsal column (1 μL/min each injection for a total of 5 μL) immediately after SCI inhibits the development of mechanical allodynia (but not thermal hyperalgesia) over an 8-month observation period following spinal cord dorsal column crush (DCC). DCC will only induce mechanical Allodynia, but not thermal hyperalgesia or overt motor deficits. By applying various fibronectin fragments as well as competitive inhibitors, these effects were shown to be dependent on the connecting segment-1 (CS-1) motif of fibronectin. Furthermore, we found that acute fibronectin treatment diminished inflammation and blood-spinal cord barrier permeability, which in turn leads to enhanced fiber sparing and sprouting. In particular, the reduction of serotonin (5-HT) in the superficial dorsal horn, an important descending brainstem system in the modulation of pain, was blocked with fibronectin treatment. We conclude that treatment of SCI with fibronectin preserves sensory regulation and prevents the development of chronic allodynia, providing a potential therapeutic intervention to treat chronic pain following SCI.	Integrins regulate cytoplasmic calcium levels ([Ca(2+)]i) in various cell types but information on activities in neurons is limited. The issue is of current interest because of the evidence that both integrins and changes in [Ca(2+)]i are required for Long-Term Potentiation. Accordingly, the present studies evaluated integrin ligand effects in cortical neurons. Integrin ligands or alpha5beta1 integrin activating antisera rapidly increased [Ca(2+)]i with effects greater in glutamatergic than GABAergic neurons, absent in astroglia, and blocked by beta1 integrin neutralizing antisera and the tyrosine kinase antagonist genistein. Increases depended upon extracellular calcium and intracellular store release. Ligand-induced effects were reduced by voltage-sensitive calcium channel and NMDA receptor antagonists, but blocked by tetrodotoxin or AMPA receptor antagonists. These results indicate that integrin ligation triggers AMPA receptor/depolarization-dependent calcium influx followed by intracellular store release and suggest the possibility that integrin modulation of activity-induced changes in [Ca(2+)]i contributes importantly to lasting synaptic plasticity in forebrain neurons.	Integrin proteins are critical for stabilization of hippocampal long-term potentiation but the mechanisms by which integrin activities are involved in synaptic transmission are not known. The present study tested whether activation of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-proprionate (AMPA) class glutamate receptors increases surface expression of alpha5beta1 integrin implicated in synaptic potentiation. Surface protein biotinylation assays demonstrated that AMPA treatment of COS7 cells expressing GluR1 homomeric AMPA receptors increased membrane insertion and steady-state surface levels of alpha5 and beta1 subunits. Treated cells exhibited increased adhesion to fibronectin- and anti-alpha5-coated substrates and tyrosine kinase signaling elicited by fibronectin-substrate adhesion, as expected if new surface receptors are functional. Increased surface expression did not occur in calcium-free medium and was blocked by the protein kinase C inhibitor chelerythrine chloride and the exocytosis inhibitor brefeldin A. AMPA treatment similarly increased alpha5 and beta1 surface expression in dissociated neurons and cultured hippocampal slices. In both neuronal preparations AMPA-induced integrin trafficking was blocked by combined antagonism of NMDA receptor and L-type voltage-sensitive calcium channel activities but was not induced by NMDA treatment alone. These results provide the first evidence that glutamate receptor activation increases integrin surface expression and function, and suggest a novel mechanism by which synaptic activity can engage a volley of new integrin signaling in coordination with, and probably involved in, stabilization of synaptic potentiation.	ARF-like proteins (ARLs) are distinct group of members of the ARF family of Ras-related GTPases. Although ARLs are very similar in primary structure to ARFs, their functions remain unclear. We cloned mouse (m) and human (h) ARL5 cDNAs to characterize the protein products and their molecular properties. mARL5 mRNA was more abundant in liver than in other adult tissues tested. mARL5, similar to mARL4, was developmentally regulated and localized to nuclei. hARL5 interacted with importin-alpha through its C-terminal bipartite nuclear localization signal. When expressed in COS-7 cells, mutant hARL5(T35N), which is predicted to be GDP bound, was concentrated in nucleoli. The N-terminus of hARL5, like that of ARF, was myristoylated. Yeast two-hybrid screening and in vitro protein-interaction assays showed that hARL5(Q80L), predicted to be GTP bound, interacted with heterochromatin protein 1alpha (HP1alpha), which is known to be associated with telomeres as well as with heterochromatin, and acted as a transcriptional suppressor in mammalian cells. The interaction was reproduced in COS cells, where hARL5(Q80L) was co-immunoprecipitated with HP1alpha. hARL5 interaction with HP1alpha was dependent on the nucleotide bound, and required the MIR-like motif. Moreover, hARL5(Q80L), but not hARL5 lacking the MIR-like motif, was partly co-localized with overexpressed HP1alpha. Our findings suggest that developmentally regulated ARL5, with its distinctive nuclear/nucleolar localization and interaction with HP1alpha, may play a role(s) in nuclear dynamics and/or signaling cascades during embryonic development.	ADP-ribosylation factors (ARFs) are highly conserved approximately 20-kDa guanine nucleotide-binding proteins that participate in both exocytic and endocytic vesicular transport pathways via mechanisms that are only partially understood. Although several ARF-like proteins (ARLs) are known, their biological functions remain unclear. To characterize its molecular properties, we cloned mouse and human ARL4 (mARL4 and hARL4) cDNA. The appearance of mouse ARL4 mRNA during embryonic development coincided temporally with the sequential formation of somites and the establishment of brain compartmentation. Using ARL4-specific antibody for immunofluorescence microscopy, we observed that endogenous mARL4 in cultured Sertoli and neuroblastoma cells was mainly concentrated in nuclei. When expressed in COS7 cells, ARL4-T34N mutant, predicted to exist with GDP bound, was concentrated in nucleoli. Yeast two-hybrid screening and in vitro protein-interaction assays showed that hARL4 interacted with importin-alpha through its C-terminal NLS region and that the interaction was not nucleotide-dependent. Like ARL2 and -3, recombinant hARL4 did not enhance cholera toxin-catalyzed auto-ADP-ribosylation. Its binding of guanosine 5'-O-(thiotriphosphate) was modified by phospholipid and detergent, and the N terminus of hARL4, like that of ARF, was myristoylated. Our findings suggest that ARL4, with its distinctive nuclear/nucleolar localization and pattern of developmental expression, may play a unique role(s) in neurogenesis and somitogenesis during embryonic development and in the early stages of spermatogenesis in adults.	Glioblastoma is an incurable brain cancer characterized by high genetic and pathological heterogeneity. Here, we mapped active chromatin landscapes with gene expression, whole exomes, copy number profiles, and DNA methylomes across 44 patient-derived glioblastoma stem cells (GSCs), 50 primary tumors, and 10 neural stem cells (NSCs) to identify essential super-enhancer (SE)-associated genes and the core transcription factors that establish SEs and maintain GSC identity. GSCs segregate into two groups dominated by distinct enhancer profiles and unique developmental core transcription factor regulatory programs. Group-specific transcription factors enforce GSC identity; they exhibit higher activity in glioblastomas versus NSCs, are associated with poor clinical outcomes, and are required for glioblastoma growth in vivo. Although transcription factors are commonly considered undruggable, group-specific enhancer regulation of the MAPK/ERK pathway predicts sensitivity to MEK inhibition. These data demonstrate that transcriptional identity can be leveraged to identify novel dependencies and therapeutic approaches.	Human Ag R (HuR) is an RNA binding protein in the ELAVL protein family. To study the neuron-specific function of HuR, we generated inducible, neuron-specific HuR-deficient mice of both sexes. After tamoxifen-induced deletion of HuR, these mice developed a phenotype consisting of poor balance, decreased movement, and decreased strength. They performed significantly worse on the rotarod test compared with littermate control mice, indicating coordination deficiency. Using the grip-strength test, it was also determined that the forelimbs of neuron-specific HuR-deficient mice were much weaker than littermate control mice. Immunostaining of the brain and cervical spinal cord showed that HuR-deficient neurons had increased levels of cleaved caspase-3, a hallmark of cell apoptosis. Caspase-3 cleavage was especially strong in pyramidal neurons and α motor neurons of HuR-deficient mice. Genome-wide microarray and real-time PCR analysis further indicated that HuR deficiency in neurons resulted in altered expression of genes in the brain involved in cell growth, including trichoplein keratin filament-binding protein, Cdkn2c, G-protein signaling modulator 2, immediate early response 2, superoxide dismutase 1, and Bcl2. The additional enriched Gene Ontology terms in the brain tissues of neuron-specific HuR-deficient mice were largely related to inflammation, including IFN-induced genes and complement components. Importantly, some of these HuR-regulated genes were also significantly altered in the brain and spinal cord of patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Additionally, neuronal HuR deficiency resulted in the redistribution of TDP43 to cytosolic granules, which has been linked to motor neuron disease. Taken together, we propose that this neuron-specific HuR-deficient mouse strain can potentially be used as a motor neuron disease model.
Lin, Feng	Inflammation and Immunity	30066197	30006485	29909366	29695418	29472120	28955337	28760953	28209777	28045484	27909060	Previous studies have demonstrated that staphylococcal superantigen-like protein 7 (SSL7), a protein produced by Staphylococcus aureus, potently inhibits the formation of the complement membrane attack complex by binding to complement component 5 (C5). However, because of the predicted immunogenicity of SSL7 as a foreign protein in humans, its potential as a new complement inhibitor for treating complement-mediated diseases is uncertain. In this study, we found that administration of SSL7 significantly prevented complement-mediated hemolysis and reduced hemoglobinuria in a mouse model of complement-mediated intravascular hemolysis. Interestingly, although repetitive administrations of SSL7 elicited anti-SSL7 antibody production, administration of SSL7 at a dose of 2 μg/mouse was still able to significantly attenuate complement-mediated intravascular hemolysis in vivo in the presence of the antibodies. In addition, even though anti-SSL7 antibodies were detectable in normal human donors, these antibodies did not significantly reduce the complement inhibitory activity of SSL7 in in vitro assays. Finally, inoculation of SSL7 in the anterior chamber of the eye suppressed the production of SSL7-reactive antibodies after repetitive SSL7 administration. These results suggest that SSL7 could be developed as an economical alternative to the existing C5-targeted drug, eculizumab, especially for controlling acute complement activation in catastrophic conditions such as drug-induced immune hemolytic anemia and ABO-incompatible erythrocyte transfusions. These data also suggest that approaches such as anterior chamber-associated immune deviation could be employed to establish an antigen-specific immune tolerance for long-term SSL7 administration. • SSL7 functions in the presence of anti-SSL7 antibodies both in vitro and in vivo. • SSL7 has the potential to be developed as a new and economical complement inhibitor for treating complement-mediated hemolysis.	Purpose: Somatic mutations in the isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH)-1 and -2 genes are remarkably penetrant in diffuse gliomas. These highly effective gain-of-function mutations enable mutant IDH to efficiently metabolize isocitrate to D-2-hydroxyglutarate (D 2-HG) that accumulates to high concentrations within the tumor microenvironment. D 2-HG is an intracellular effector that promotes tumor growth through widespread epigenetic changes in IDH-mutant tumor cells, but its potential role as an intercellular immune regulator remains understudied.Experimental Design: Complement activation and CD4<sup>+</sup>, CD8<sup>+</sup>, or FOXP3<sup>+</sup> T-cell infiltration into primary tumor tissue were determined by immunohistochemistry using sections from 72 gliomas of World Health Organization (WHO) grade III and IV with or without IDH mutations. Ex vivo experiments with D 2-HG identified immune inhibitory mechanisms.Results: IDH mutation associated with significantly reduced complement activation and decreased numbers of tumor-infiltrating CD4<sup>+</sup> and CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells with comparable FOXP3<sup>+</sup>/CD4<sup>+</sup> ratios. D 2-HG potently inhibited activation of complement by the classical and alternative pathways, attenuated complement-mediated glioma cell damage, decreased cellular C3b(iC3b) opsonization, and impaired complement-mediated phagocytosis. Although D 2-HG did not affect dendritic cell differentiation or function, it significantly inhibited activated T-cell migration, proliferation, and cytokine secretion.Conclusions: D 2-HG suppresses the host immune system, potentially promoting immune escape of IDH-mutant tumors. Clin Cancer Res; 24(21); 5381-91. ©2018 AACR.	Excessive complement activation contributes significantly to the pathogeneses of various diseases. Currently, significant developmental research efforts aim to identify complement inhibitors with therapeutic uses have led to the approval of one inhibitor for clinical use. However, most existing complement inhibitors are based on monoclonal antibodies, which have many drawbacks such as high costs and limited administration options. With this report, we establish an inexpensive, cell imaging-based high-throughput assay for the large-scale screening of potential small molecule complement inhibitors. Using this assay, we screened a library containing 3115 bioactive chemical compounds and identified cisplatin and pyridostatin as two new complement inhibitors in addition to nafamostat mesylate, a compound with known complement inhibitory activity. We further demonstrated that cisplatin and pyridostatin inhibit C5 convertases in the classical pathway of complement activation but have no effects on the alternative pathway of complement activation. In summary, this work has established a simple, large-scale, high-throughput assay for screening novel complement inhibitors and discovered previously unknown complement activation inhibitory activities for cisplatin and pyridostatin.	Chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN) is a painful and debilitating side effect of cancer chemotherapy with an unclear pathogenesis. Consequently, the available therapies for this neuropathic pain syndrome are inadequate, leading to a significantly reduced quality of life in many patients. Complement, a key component of the innate immune system, has been associated with neuroinflammation, a potentially important trigger of some types of neuropathic pain. However, the role of complement in CIPN remains unclear. To address this issue, we developed a C3 knockout (KO) rat model and induced CIPN in these KO rats and wild-type littermates via the i.p. administration of paclitaxel, a chemotherapeutic agent associated with CIPN. We then compared the severity of mechanical allodynia, complement activation, and intradermal nerve fiber loss between the groups. We found that 1) i.p. paclitaxel administration activated complement in wild-type rats, 2) paclitaxel-induced mechanical allodynia was significantly reduced in C3 KO rats, and 3) the paclitaxel-induced loss of intradermal nerve fibers was markedly attenuated in C3 KO rats. In in vitro studies, we found that paclitaxel-treated rat neuronal cells activated complement, leading to cellular injury. Our findings demonstrate a previously unknown but pivotal role of complement in CIPN and suggest that complement may be a new target for the development of novel therapeutics to manage this painful disease.	CD6 is emerging as a new target for treating many pathological conditions in which T cells are integrally involved, but even the latest data from studies of CD6 gene engineered mice were still contradictory. To address this issue, we studied experimental autoimmune uveitis (EAU), a model of autoimmune uveitis, in wild-type (WT) and CD6 knockout (KO) mice. After EAU induction in WT and CD6 KO mice, we evaluated ocular inflammation and compared retinal antigen-specific T-cell responses using scanning laser ophthalmoscopy, spectral-domain optical coherence tomography, histopathology, and T cell recall assays. Uveitogenic T cells from WT and CD6 KO mice were adoptively transferred into WT naïve mice to confirm the impact of CD6 on T cells. In addition, we immunized CD6 KO mice with recombinant CD6 protein to develop mouse anti-mouse CD6 monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) in which functional antibodies exhibiting cross-reactivity with human CD6 were screened and identified for treatment studies. In CD6 KO mice with EAU, we found significantly decreased retinal inflammation and reduced autoreactive T-cell responses, and confirmed the impaired uveitogenic capacity of T cells from these mice in an adoptive transfer experiment. Notably, one of these cross-reactive mAbs significantly ameliorated retinal inflammation in EAU induced by the adoptive transfer of uveitogenic T cells. Together, these data strongly suggest that CD6 plays a previously unknown, but pivotal role in autoimmune uveitis, and may be a promising new treatment target for this blinding disease. In addition, the newly developed mouse anti-mouse/human CD6 mAbs could be valuable tools for testing CD6-targeted therapies in other mouse models of human diseases.	In addition to its conventional roles in the innate immune system, complement has been found to directly regulate T cells in the adaptive immune system. Complement components, including C3, C5, and factor D, are important in regulating T cell responses. However, whether complement component C4 is involved in regulating T cell responses remains unclear. In this study, we used a T cell-dependent model of autoimmunity, experimental autoimmune uveitis (EAU) to address this issue. We compared disease severity in wild-type (WT) and C4 knockout (KO) mice using indirect ophthalmoscopy, scanning laser ophthalmoscopy, spectral-domain optical coherence tomography, and histopathological analysis. We also explored the underlying mechanism by examining T cell responses in ex vivo antigen-specific recall assays and in in vitro T cell priming assays using bone marrow-derived dendritic cells, splenic dendritic cells, and T cells from WT or C4 KO mice. We found that C4 KO mice develop less severe retinal inflammation than WT mice in EAU and show reduced autoreactive T cell responses and decreased retinal T cell infiltration. We also found that T cells, but not dendritic cells, from C4 KO mice have impaired function. These results demonstrate a previously unknown role of C4 in regulating T cell responses, which affects the development of T cell-mediated autoimmunity, as exemplified by EAU. Our data could shed light on the pathogenesis of autoimmune uveitis in humans.	It has been proposed that CD6, an important regulator of T cells, functions by interacting with its currently identified ligand, CD166, but studies performed during the treatment of autoimmune conditions suggest that the CD6-CD166 interaction might not account for important functions of CD6 in autoimmune diseases. The antigen recognized by mAb 3A11 has been proposed as a new CD6 ligand distinct from CD166, yet the identity of it is hitherto unknown. We have identified this CD6 ligand as CD318, a cell surface protein previously found to be present on various epithelial cells and many tumor cells. We found that, like CD6 knockout (KO) mice, CD318 KO mice are also protected in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. In humans, we found that CD318 is highly expressed in synovial tissues and participates in CD6-dependent adhesion of T cells to synovial fibroblasts. In addition, soluble CD318 is chemoattractive to T cells and levels of soluble CD318 are selectively and significantly elevated in the synovial fluid from patients with rheumatoid arthritis and juvenile inflammatory arthritis. These results establish CD318 as a ligand of CD6 and a potential target for the diagnosis and treatment of autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis and inflammatory arthritis.	CD6 was established as a marker of T cells more than three decades ago, and recent studies have identified CD6 as a risk gene for multiple sclerosis (MS), a disease in which autoreactive T cells are integrally involved. Nevertheless, the precise role of CD6 in regulating T-cell responses is controversial and its significance in the pathogenesis of various diseases remains elusive, partly due to the lack of animals engineered to alter expression of the CD6 gene. In this report, we found that CD6 KO mice showed decreased pathogenic T-cell responses, reduced spinal cord T-cell infiltration, and attenuated disease severity in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model of MS. CD6-deficient T cells exhibited augmented activation, but also significantly reduced survival and proliferation after activation, leading to overall decreased Th1 and Th17 polarization. Activated CD6-deficient T cells also showed impaired infiltration through brain microvascular endothelial cell monolayers. Furthermore, by developing CD6 humanized mice, we identified a mouse anti-human CD6 monoclonal antibody that is highly effective in treating established EAE without depleting T cells. These results suggest that (i) CD6 is a negative regulator of T-cell activation, (ii) at the same time, CD6 is a positive regulator of activated T-cell survival/proliferation and infiltration; and (iii) CD6 is a potential new target for treating MS and potentially other T-cell-driven autoimmune conditions.	The complement system is emerging as a new target for treating many diseases. For example, Eculizumab, a humanized monoclonal antibody against complement component 5 (C5), has been approved for paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH) in which patient erythrocytes are lysed by complement. In this study, we developed vaccines to elicit autologous anti-C5 antibody production in mice for complement inhibition. Immunization of mice with a conservative C5 xenoprotein raised high titers of IgG's against the xenogenous C5, but these antibodies did not reduce C5 activity in the blood. In contrast, an autologous mouse C5 vaccine containing multiple predicted epitopes together with a tolerance-breaking peptide was found to induce anti-C5 autoantibody production in vivo, resulting in decreased hemolytic activity in the blood. We further validated a peptide epitope within this C5 vaccine and created recombinant virus-like particles (VLPs) displaying this epitope fused with the tolerance breaking peptide. Immunizing mice with these novel nanoparticles elicited strong humoral responses against recombinant mouse C5, reduced hemolytic activity, and protected the mice from complement-mediated intravascular hemolysis in a model of PNH. This proof-of-concept study demonstrated that autologous C5-based vaccines could be an effective alternative or supplement for treating complement-mediated diseases such as PNH.	Intestinal ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury is a relatively common pathological condition that can lead to multi-organ failure and mortality. Regulatory mechanism for this disease is poorly understood, although it is established that circulating pathogenic natural IgM, which is primarily produced by B1a cells outside of the peritoneal cavity, are integrally involved. CD6 was originally identified as a marker for T cells and was later found to be present on some subsets of B cells in humans; however, whether CD6 plays any role in intestinal I/R-induced injury and, if so, the underlying mechanisms, remain unknown. Here we report that CD6<sup>-/-</sup> mice were significantly protected from intestinal inflammation and mucosal damage compared with WT mice in a model of intestinal I/R-induced injury. Mechanistically, we found that CD6 was selectively expressed on B1 cells outside of the bone marrow and peritoneal cavity and that pathogenic natural IgM titers were reduced in the CD6<sup>-/-</sup> mice in association with significantly decreased B1a cell population. Our results reveal an unexpected role of CD6 in the pathogenesis of intestinal IR-induced injury by regulating the self-renewal of B1a cells.
Lindner, Daniel	Translational Hematology and Oncology Research	27560553	23202046	19430495	18937547	18074035	17379600	16847314	16689662	15634191	12881518	Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) patients treated with tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI) typically respond initially, but usually develop resistance to therapy. We utilised transcriptome analysis to identify gene expression changes during development of sunitinib resistance in a RCC patient-derived xenograft (PDX) model. RCC tumours were harvested during pre-treatment, response and escape phases. Direct anti-proliferative effects of sunitinib plus MEK inhibitor were assessed. Activation status (phosphorylation) of MEK1/2 and ERK1/2 was determined, myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSC) sub-fractions were quantitated and G-CSF was measured by ELISA. During the response phase, tumours exhibited 91% reduction in volume, characterised by decreased expression of cell survival genes. After 4-week treatment, tumours developed resistance to sunitinib, associated with increased expression of pro-angiogenic and cell survival genes. During tumour escape, cellular movement, inflammatory response and immune cell trafficking genes were induced, along with intra-tumoural accumulation of MDSC. In this PDX model, either continuous treatment with sunitinib plus MEK inhibitor PD-0325901, or switching from sunitinib to PD-0325901 was effective. The combination of PD-0325901 with TKI suppressed intra-tumoural phospho-MEK1/2, phospho-ERK1/2 and MDSC. Continuous treatment with sunitinib alone did not maintain anti-tumour response; addition of MEK inhibitor abrogated resistance, leading to improved anti-tumour efficacy.	Reversibility of aberrant methylation via pharmacological means is an attractive target for therapies through epigenetic reprogramming. To establish that pharmacologic reversal of methylation could result in functional inhibition of angiogenesis, we undertook in vitro and in vivo studies of thrombospondin-1 (TSP1), a known inhibitor of angiogenesis. TSP1 is methylated in several malignancies, and can inhibit angiogenesis in melanoma xenografts. We analyzed effects of 5-Aza-deoxycytidine (5-Aza-dC) on melanoma cells in vitro to confirm reversal of promoter hypermethylation and restoration of TSP1 expression. We then investigated the effects of TSP1 expression on new blood vessel formation and tumor growth in vivo. Finally, to determine potential for clinical translation, the methylation status of TSP1 promoter regions of nevi and melanoma tissues was investigated. 5-Aza-dC reduced DNA (cytosine-5)-methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1) protein, reversed promoter hypermethylation, and restored TSP1 expression in five melanoma cell lines, while having no effect on TSP1 protein levels in normal human melanocytes. In in vivo neovascularization studies, mice were implanted with melanoma cells (A375) either untreated or treated with 5Aza-dC. Vessels at tumor sites were counted by an observer blinded to treatments and the number of tumor vessels was significantly decreased at pretreated tumor sites. This difference occurred before a significant difference in tumor volumes was seen, yet in further studies the average tumor volume in mice treated in vivo with 5-Aza-dC was decreased by 55% compared to untreated controls. Knockdown of TSP1 expression with shRNA enhanced tumor-induced angiogenesis by 68%. Analyses of promoter methylation status of TSP1 in tumors derived from untreated and treated mice identified 67% of tumors from untreated and 17% of tumors from treated mice with partial methylation consistent with the methylation specific PCR analysis of A375 cells. Examination of methylation patterns in the promoter of TSP1 and comparison of aberrantly methylated TSP1 in melanoma with non-malignant nevi identified a significantly higher frequency of promoter methylation in tumor samples from melanoma patients. Pharmacological reversal of methylation silenced TSP1 had functional biological consequences in enhancing angiogenesis inhibition and inducing antitumor effects to decrease murine melanoma growth. Angiogenesis inhibition is an additional mechanism by which epigenetic modulators can have antitumor effects.	Inositol hexakisphosphate kinase 2 (IP6K2), a member of the inositol hexakisphosphate kinase family, functions as a growth suppressive and apoptosis-enhancing kinase during cell stress. We created mice with a targeted deletion of IP6K2; these mice display normal embryogenesis, development, growth and fertility. Chronic exposure to the carcinogen 4-nitroquinoline 1-oxide (4-NQO, a UV-mimetic compound) in drinking water resulted in fourfold increased incidence of invasive squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) formation in the oral cavity and esophagus of the knockout (KO) mice compared to the wild-type (WT) littermates. Paradoxically, KO mice displayed relative resistance to ionizing radiation and exhibit enhanced survival following 8-10 Gy total body irradiation. Primary KO fibroblasts displayed resistance to antiproliferative effects of interferon-beta and increased colony forming units following ionizing radiation. Radioresistance of KO fibroblasts was associated with accelerated DNA repair measured by comet assay. Direct microinjection of 5-PP-Ins(1,2,3,4,6)P(5) (the enzymatic product of IP6K2), but not InsP(6) (the substrate of IP6K2) induced cell death in SCC22A squamous carcinoma cells.	Interferons (IFNs) have proven antitumor activity against a variety of human malignancies, which may result, at least in part, from inhibition of angiogenesis. The objective of this study was to identify IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs) that played a role in mediation of angiogenic inhibition. IFN-beta was a more potent antiangiogenic agent compared to IFN-alpha2b (80% versus 20%, respectively) and suggests that IFNs inhibited angiogenesis by preventing endothelial cell differentiation, and not by direct antiproliferative effects. To identify ISGs that were key inhibitors of angiogenesis, we utilized an in vitro fibrin gel angiogenic assay which closely recapitulated the in vivo processes of angiogenesis. DNA microarray analysis of IFN-beta-treated endothelial cells in the fibrin gel assay identified 11 ISGs that were induced &gt;10-fold during angiogenesis inhibition. Recombinant IP-10 inhibited angiogenesis in a dose-dependent fashion, but was a less effective inhibitor compared to IFN-beta, suggesting that additional ISGs are involved in inhibiting angiogenesis. ISG20 was upregulated by microarray analysis, but did not inhibit angiogenesis when overexpressed in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). However, a dominant negative mutant of ISG20 inhibited angiogenesis by 43%. Results suggest that IFN-induced angiogenic inhibition was likely mediated by multiple ISGs; our novel finding is that decreased exonuclease activity in HUVECs associated with expression of the ISG20 ExoII mutant inhibited angiogenesis.	Nitrosylcobalamin (NO-Cbl) is a chemotherapeutic pro-drug derived from vitamin B12 that preferentially delivers nitric oxide (NO) to tumor cells, based upon increased receptor expression. NO-Cbl induces Apo2L/TRAIL-mediated apoptosis and inhibits survival signaling in a variety of malignant cell lines. Chemotherapeutic agents often simultaneously induce an apoptotic signal and activation of NF-kappaB, which has the undesired effect of promoting cell survival. The specific aims of this study were to 1) measure the anti-tumor effects of NO-Cbl alone and in combination with conventional chemotherapeutic agents, and to 2) examine the mechanism of action of NO-Cbl as a single agent and in combination therapy. Using anti-proliferative assays, electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA), immunoblot analysis and kinase assays, we demonstrate an increase in the effectiveness of chemotherapeutic agents in combination with NO-Cbl as a result of suppressed NF-kappaB activation. Eighteen chemotherapeutic agents were tested in combination with NO-Cbl, in thirteen malignant cell lines, resulting in a synergistic anti-proliferative effect in 78% of the combinations tested. NO-Cbl pre-treatment resulted in decreased NF-kappaB DNA binding activity, inhibition of IkappaB kinase (IKK) enzymatic activity, decreased AKT activation, increased caspase-8 and PARP cleavage, and decreased cellular XIAP protein levels. The use of NO-Cbl to inhibit survival signaling may enhance drug efficacy by preventing concomitant activation of NF-kappaB or AKT.	We previously showed that inositol hexakisphosphate kinase 2 (IHPK2) functions as a growth-suppressive and apoptosis-enhancing kinase during cell stress. Overexpression of IHPK2 sensitized ovarian carcinoma cell lines to the growth-suppressive and apoptotic effects of interferon beta (IFN-beta), IFN-alpha2, and gamma-irradiation. Expression of a kinase-dead mutant abrogated 50% of the apoptosis induced by IFN-beta. Because the kinase-dead mutant retained significant response to cell stressors, we hypothesized that a portion of the death-promoting function of IHPK2 was independent of its kinase activity. We now demonstrate that IHPK2 binds to tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor-associated factor (TRAF) 2 and interferes with phosphorylation of transforming growth factor beta-activated kinase 1 (TAK1), thereby inhibiting NF-kappaB signaling. IHPK2 contains two sites required for TRAF2 binding, Ser-347 and Ser-359. Compared with wild type IHPK2-transfected cells, cells expressing S347A and S359A mutations displayed 3.5-fold greater TAK1 activation following TNF-alpha. This mutant demonstrated a 6-10-fold increase in NF-kappaB DNA binding following TNF-alpha compared with wild type IHPK2-expressing cells in which NF-kappaB DNA binding was inhibited. Cells transfected with wild type IHPK2 or IHPK2 mutants that lacked S347A and S359A mutations displayed enhanced terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated dUTP nick end-labeling staining following TNF-alpha. We believe that IHPK2-TRAF2 binding leads to attenuation of TAK1- and NF-kappaB-mediated signaling and is partially responsible for the apoptotic activity of IHPK2.	We have previously demonstrated that nitrosylcobalamin (NO-Cbl), an analogue of vitamin B12 that delivers nitric oxide (NO), had potent antiproliferative activity against several human cancer cell lines. NO-Cbl induced apoptosis via a death receptor/caspase-8 pathway. In this study, we demonstrate that a functional Apo2L/TRAIL receptor was necessary for the induction of cell death by NO-Cbl. Furthermore, the Apo2L/TRAIL death receptor DR4 (TRAIL R1) was S nitrosylated following NO-Cbl treatment. Human melanoma (A375), renal carcinoma (ACHN), and ovarian carcinoma (NIH-OVCAR-3) cells were treated with NO-Cbl and subjected to the biotin switch assay; S-nitrosylated DR4 was detected in all three cell lines. NO-Cbl treatment did not cause S nitrosylation of DR5. The seven cysteine residues located in the cytoplasmic domain of DR4 were individually point mutated to alanines. NIH-OVCAR-3 cells expressing the DR4 C336A mutation lacked S nitrosylation following NO-Cbl treatment. Overexpression of wild-type DR4 sensitized cells to growth inhibition by NO-Cbl. Cells expressing the DR4 C336A mutant were more resistant to NO-Cbl and Apo2L/TRAIL than were the other six C-A mutations or wild-type cells. The C336A mutant also displayed blunted caspase-8 enzymatic activity following NO-Cbl treatment compared to the other mutants. Thus, DR4 residue C336 becomes S nitrosylated and promotes apoptosis following NO-Cbl treatment.	Interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) has proved effective in the treatment of hemangiomas, hemangioblastomas, and Kaposi's sarcoma. To investigate the ability of IFNs to inhibit angiosarcoma, we used two transformed murine endothelial cell lines that form angiosarcomas in vivo. SVR and MS1-VEGF cell lines express oncogenic H-ras or vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), respectively. IFN-alpha1,8, which is active against murine and human cells, inhibited SVR and MS1-VEGF proliferation in vitro by 40% at 10(3) U/mL (p = 0.028). In vivo, IFN-alpha1,8 inhibited SVR tumor volume by 71% (p = 0.047) and MS1-VEGF volume by 79% (p = 0.003). Tumor-induced angiogenesis was decreased in SVR tumors by 52% (p = 0.005) and in MS1-VEGF tumors by 58% (p = 0.001). Sera from IFN-alpha1,8-treated mice bearing either SVR or MS1-VEGF tumors demonstrated a 5-fold increase in IP-10/CXCL10 (p = 0.001), an IFN-induced antiangiogenic protein. Both recombinant IP-10 and IFN-alpha1,8 inhibited human umbilical vein endothelial cell (HUVEC) vessel formation in the fibrin gel assay, a three-dimensional culture model of angiogenesis, by 56% at 25 ng/mL and 50% at 1.2 ng/mL, respectively (p &lt; 0.001). An IP-10 blocking antibody restored vessel formation to 80% of untreated controls (p = 0.001). Given the magnitude of the in vivo response, these data suggested that the antitumor effects of IFN-alpha1,8 were likely mediated through angiogenesis inhibition rather than solely by direct inhibition of tumor cell proliferation.	Previously, we have reported that overexpression of IHPK2 (inositol hexakisphosphate kinase 2) sensitized NIH-OVCAR-3 ovarian carcinoma cell lines to the growth-suppressive and apoptotic effects of IFN-beta (interferon-beta) treatment and gamma-irradiation. In the present study, we demonstrate that Apo2L/TRAIL (Apo2L/tumour-necrosis-factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand) is a critical mediator of IFN-induced apoptosis in these cells. Compared with IFN-alpha2, IFN-beta is a more potent inducer of Apo2L/TRAIL and IHPK2 activity. Overexpression of IHPK2 converts IFN-alpha2-resistant cells into cells that readily undergo apoptosis in response to IFN-alpha2. In untreated cells transfected with IHPK2-eGFP (where eGFP stands for enhanced green fluorescent protein), the fusion protein is localized to the cytoplasm and perinuclear region. After treatment with IFN-beta, IHPK2-eGFP translocated to the nucleus. In cells transfected with mutant IHPK2-NLS-eGFP (where NLS stands for nuclear localization sequence), containing point mutations in the NLS, the fusion protein remained trapped in the cytoplasm, even after IFN-beta treatment. Cells expressing mutant NLS mutation were more resistant to IFN-beta. The IC50 value of IHPK2-expressing cells was 2-3-fold lower than vector control. The IC50 value of NLS-mutant-expressing cells was 3-fold higher than vector control. Blocking antibodies to Apo2L/TRAIL or transfection with a dominant negative Apo2L/TRAIL receptor (DR5Delta) inhibited the antiproliferative effects of IFN-beta. Thus overexpression of IHPK2 enhanced apoptotic effects of IFN-beta, and expression of the NLS mutant conferred resistance to IFN-beta. Apo2L/TRAIL expression and nuclear localization of IHPK2 are both required for the induction of apoptosis by IFN-beta in ovarian carcinoma.	We have previously demonstrated the anti-tumor activity of nitrosylcobalamin (NO-Cbl), an analog of vitamin B12 that delivers nitric oxide (NO) and increases the expression of tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (Apo2L/TRAIL) and its receptors in human tumors. The specific aim of this study was to examine whether NO-Cbl could sensitize drug-resistant melanomas to Apo2L/TRAIL. Antiproliferative effects of NO-Cbl and Apo2L/TRAIL were assessed in malignant melanomas and non-tumorigenic melanocyte and fibroblast cell lines. Athymic nude mice bearing human melanoma A375 xenografts were treated with NO-Cbl and Apo2L/TRAIL. Apoptosis was measured by TUNEL and confirmed by examining levels and activity of key mediators of apoptosis. The activation status of NF-kappa B was established by assaying DNA binding, luciferase reporter activity, the phosphorylation status of I kappa B alpha, and in vitro IKK activity. NO-Cbl sensitized Apo2L/TRAIL-resistant melanoma cell lines to growth inhibition by Apo2L/TRAIL but had minimal effect on normal cell lines. NO-Cbl and Apo2L/TRAIL exerted synergistic anti-tumor activity against A375 xenografts. Treatment with NO-Cbl followed by Apo2L/TRAIL induced apoptosis in Apo2L/TRAIL-resistant tumor cells, characterized by cleavage of caspase-3, caspase-8, and PARP. NO-Cbl inhibited IKK activation, characterized by decreased phosphorylation of I kappa B alpha and inhibition of NF-kappa B DNA binding activity. NO-Cbl suppressed Apo2L/TRAIL- and TNF-alpha-mediated activation of a transfected NF-kappa B-driven luciferase reporter. XIAP, an inhibitor of apoptosis, was inactivated by NO-Cbl. NO-Cbl treatment rendered Apo2L/TRAIL-resistant malignancies sensitive to the anti-tumor effects of Apo2L/TRAIL in vitro and in vivo. The use of NO-Cbl and Apo2L/TRAIL capitalizes on the tumor-specific properties of both agents and represents a promising anti-cancer combination.
Longworth, Michelle	Inflammation and Immunity	30407525	30068527	29028794	28820335	27317808	26734601	25701737	24204294	22496667	19714354	Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBDs) are chronic inflammatory disorders affecting the gastrointestinal tract. The incidence of IBD is increasing, with more cases occurring in developed countries. Multiple factors such as genetics, environmental changes, gut microbiota, and immune abnormalities have been associated with development of IBD. In recent years, it has become increasingly apparent that epigenetic modifications of chromatin and the manner in which chromatin is organized in the nucleus are additionally important elements that can influence responses induced by the factors described above, and may therefore contribute to the onset and pathogenesis of IBD. Epigenetics and chromatin organization regulate diverse functions that include maintenance of homeostasis in the intestinal epithelium, the development and differentiation of immune cells, and modulation of responses generated by the immune system to defend against potential pathogens. Furthermore, changes in epigenetic chromatin marks and in chromatin organization have now been linked to differential gene expression in IBD patient cells. Although direct evidence for a role of histone modifications in IBD is currently very limited, in this review, we summarize the links between various epigenetic modifications, the proteins that catalyze or recognize these modifications, and the development or progression of IBD in human and experimental IBD. We also discuss how epigenetics influence the organization of DNA contacts to regulate gene expression and the implications this may have for diagnosing and treating IBD.	The Condensin II complex plays important, conserved roles in genome organization throughout the cell cycle and in the regulation of gene expression. Previous studies have linked decreased Condensin II subunit expression with a variety of diseases. Here, we show that elevated levels of Condensin II subunits are detected in somatic cancers. To evaluate potential biological effects of elevated Condensin II levels, we overexpressed the Condensin II subunit, dCAP-D3 in Drosophila melanogaster larval tissues and examined the effects on the mitotic- and interphase-specific functions of Condensin II. Interestingly, while ubiquitous overexpression resulted in pupal lethality, tissue specific overexpression of dCAP-D3 caused formation of nucleoplasmic protein aggregates which slowed mitotic prophase progression, mimicking results observed when dCAP-D3 levels are depleted. Surprisingly, dCAP-D3 aggregate formation resulted in faster transitions from metaphase to anaphase. Overexpressed dCAP-D3 protein failed to precipitate other Condensin II subunits in nondividing tissues, but did cause changes to gene expression which occurred in a manner opposite of what was observed when dCAP-D3 levels were depleted in both dividing and nondividing tissues. Our findings show that altering dCAP-D3 levels in either direction has detrimental effects on mitotic timing, the regulation of gene expression, and organism development. Taken together, these data suggest that the different roles for Condensin II throughout the cell cycle may be independent of each other and/or that dCAP-D3 may possess functions that are separate from those involving its association with the Condensin II complex. If conserved, these findings could have implications for tumors harboring elevated CAP-D3 levels.	LINE-1 (L1) retrotransposons can mobilize (retrotranspose) within the human genome, and mutagenic de novo L1 insertions can lead to human diseases, including cancers. As a result, cells are actively engaged in preventing L1 retrotransposition. This work reveals that the human Condensin II complex restricts L1 retrotransposition in both non-transformed and transformed cell lines through inhibition of L1 transcription and translation. Condensin II subunits, CAP-D3 and CAP-H2, interact with members of the Gamma-Interferon Activated Inhibitor of Translation (GAIT) complex including the glutamyl-prolyl-tRNA synthetase (EPRS), the ribosomal protein L13a, Glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), and NS1 associated protein 1 (NSAP1). GAIT has been shown to inhibit translation of mRNAs encoding inflammatory proteins in myeloid cells by preventing the binding of the translation initiation complex, in response to Interferon gamma (IFN-γ). Excitingly, our data show that Condensin II promotes complexation of GAIT subunits. Furthermore, RNA-Immunoprecipitation experiments in epithelial cells demonstrate that Condensin II and GAIT subunits associate with L1 RNA in a co-dependent manner, independent of IFN-γ. These findings suggest that cooperation between the Condensin II and GAIT complexes may facilitate a novel mechanism of L1 repression, thus contributing to the maintenance of genome stability in somatic cells.	NA	The pattern of the Drosophila melanogaster adult wing is heavily influenced by the expression of proteins that dictate cell fate decisions between intervein and vein during development. dSRF (Blistered) expression in specific regions of the larval wing disc promotes intervein cell fate, whereas EGFR activity promotes vein cell fate. Here, we report that the chromatin-organizing protein CAP-D3 acts to dampen dSRF levels at the anterior/posterior boundary in the larval wing disc, promoting differentiation of cells into the anterior crossvein. CAP-D3 represses KNOT expression in cells immediately adjacent to the anterior/posterior boundary, thus blocking KNOT-mediated repression of EGFR activity and preventing cell death. Maintenance of EGFR activity in these cells depresses dSRF levels in the neighboring anterior crossvein progenitor cells, allowing them to differentiate into vein cells. These findings uncover a novel transcriptional regulatory network influencing Drosophila wing vein development, and are the first to identify a Condensin II subunit as an important regulator of EGFR activity and cell fate determination in vivo.	Retrotransposons are repetitive DNA sequences that are positioned throughout the human genome. Retrotransposons are capable of copying themselves and mobilizing new copies to novel genomic locations in a process called retrotransposition. While most retrotransposon sequences in the human genome are incomplete and incapable of mobilization, the LINE-1 retrotransposon, which comprises~17% of the human genome, remains active. The disruption of cellular mechanisms that suppress retrotransposon activity is linked to the generation of aneuploidy, a potential driver of tumor development. When retrotransposons insert into a novel genomic region, they have the potential to disrupt the coding sequence of endogenous genes and alter gene expression, which can lead to deleterious consequences for the organism. Additionally, increased LINE-1 copy numbers provide more chances for recombination events to occur between retrotransposons, which can lead to chromosomal breaks and rearrangements. LINE-1 activity is increased in various cancer cell lines and in patient tissues resected from primary tumors. LINE-1 activity also correlates with increased cancer metastasis. This review aims to give a brief overview of the connections between LINE-1 retrotransposition and the loss of genome stability. We will also discuss the mechanisms that repress retrotransposition in human cells and their links to cancer. 	Defects in colonic epithelial barrier defenses are associated with ulcerative colitis (UC). The proteins that regulate bacterial clearance in the colonic epithelium have not been completely identified. The Drosophila chromosome-associated protein D3 (dCAP-D3) regulates responses to bacterial infection. We examined whether CAP-D3 promotes bacterial clearance in human colonic epithelium. Clearance of Salmonella or adherent-invasive Escherichia coli LF82 was assessed by gentamycin protection assays in HT-29 and Caco-2 cells expressing small hairpin RNAs against CAP-D3. We used immunoblot assays to measure levels of CAP-D3 in colonic epithelial cells from patients with UC and healthy individuals (controls). RNA sequencing identified genes activated by CAP-D3. We analyzed the roles of CAP-D3 target genes in bacterial clearance using gentamycin protection and immunofluorescence assays and studies with pharmacologic inhibitors. CAP-D3 expression was reduced in colonic epithelial cells from patients with active UC. Reduced CAP-D3 expression decreased autophagy and impaired intracellular bacterial clearance by HT-29 and Caco-2 colonic epithelial cells. Lower levels of CAP-D3 increased transcription of genes encoding SLC7A5 and SLC3A2, the products of which heterodimerize to form an amino acid transporter in HT-29 cells after bacterial infection; levels of SLC7A5-SLC3A2 were increased in tissues from patients with UC compared with controls. Reduced CAP-D3 in HT-29 cells resulted in earlier recruitment of SLC7A5 to Salmonella-containing vacuoles, increased activity of mTORC1, and increased survival of bacteria. Inhibition of SLC7A5-SLC3A2 or mTORC1 activity rescued the bacterial clearance defects of CAP-D3-deficient cells. CAP-D3 down-regulates transcription of genes that encode amino acid transporters (SLC7A5 and SLC3A2) to promote bacterial autophagy by colon epithelial cells. Levels of CAP-D3 protein are reduced in patients with active UC; strategies to increase its levels might restore mucosal homeostasis to patients with active UC.	Retrotransposon sequences are positioned throughout the genome of almost every eukaryote that has been sequenced. As mobilization of these elements can have detrimental effects on the transcriptional regulation and stability of an organism's genome, most organisms have evolved mechanisms to repress their movement. Here, we identify a novel role for the Drosophila melanogaster Condensin II subunit, dCAP-D3 in preventing the mobilization of retrotransposons located in somatic cell euchromatin. dCAP-D3 regulates transcription of euchromatic gene clusters which contain or are proximal to retrotransposon sequence. ChIP experiments demonstrate that dCAP-D3 binds to these loci and is important for maintaining a repressed chromatin structure within the boundaries of the retrotransposon and for repressing retrotransposon transcription. We show that dCAP-D3 prevents accumulation of double stranded DNA breaks within retrotransposon sequence, and decreased dCAP-D3 levels leads to a precise loss of retrotransposon sequence at some dCAP-D3 regulated gene clusters and a gain of sequence elsewhere in the genome. Homologous chromosomes exhibit high levels of pairing in Drosophila somatic cells, and our FISH analyses demonstrate that retrotransposon-containing euchromatic loci are regions which are actually less paired than euchromatic regions devoid of retrotransposon sequences. Decreased dCAP-D3 expression increases pairing of homologous retrotransposon-containing loci in tissue culture cells. We propose that the combined effects of dCAP-D3 deficiency on double strand break levels, chromatin structure, transcription and pairing at retrotransposon-containing loci may lead to 1) higher levels of homologous recombination between repeats flanking retrotransposons in dCAP-D3 deficient cells and 2) increased retrotransposition. These findings identify a novel role for the anti-pairing activities of dCAP-D3/Condensin II and uncover a new way in which dCAP-D3/Condensin II influences local chromatin structure to help maintain genome stability. 	Previously, we discovered a conserved interaction between RB proteins and the Condensin II protein CAP-D3 that is important for ensuring uniform chromatin condensation during mitotic prophase. The Drosophila melanogaster homologs RBF1 and dCAP-D3 co-localize on non-dividing polytene chromatin, suggesting the existence of a shared, non-mitotic role for these two proteins. Here, we show that the absence of RBF1 and dCAP-D3 alters the expression of many of the same genes in larvae and adult flies. Strikingly, most of the genes affected by the loss of RBF1 and dCAP-D3 are not classic cell cycle genes but are developmentally regulated genes with tissue-specific functions and these genes tend to be located in gene clusters. Our data reveal that RBF1 and dCAP-D3 are needed in fat body cells to activate transcription of clusters of antimicrobial peptide (AMP) genes. AMPs are important for innate immunity, and loss of either dCAP-D3 or RBF1 regulation results in a decrease in the ability to clear bacteria. Interestingly, in the adult fat body, RBF1 and dCAP-D3 bind to regions flanking an AMP gene cluster both prior to and following bacterial infection. These results describe a novel, non-mitotic role for the RBF1 and dCAP-D3 proteins in activation of the Drosophila immune system and suggest dCAP-D3 has an important role at specific subsets of RBF1-dependent genes.	The retinoblastoma (pRb) family of proteins are well known for their tumor suppressor properties and for their ability to regulate transcription. The action of pRb family members correlates with the appearance of repressive chromatin marks at promoter regions of genes encoding key regulators of cell proliferation. Recent studies raise the possibility that pRb family members do not simply act by controlling the activity of individual promoters but that they may also function by promoting the more general organization of chromatin. In several contexts, pRb family members stimulate the compaction or condensation of chromatin and promote the formation of heterochromatin. In this review, we summarize studies that link pRb family members to the condensation or compaction of DNA.
Louveau, Antoine	Neurosciences	30224810	30141006	30008983	29401417	28862640	27608759	26909581	26576598	26431936	26398980	Neuroinflammatory diseases, such as multiple sclerosis, are characterized by invasion of the brain by autoreactive T cells. The mechanism for how T cells acquire their encephalitogenic phenotype and trigger disease remains, however, unclear. The existence of lymphatic vessels in the meninges indicates a relevant link between the CNS and peripheral immune system, perhaps affecting autoimmunity. Here we demonstrate that meningeal lymphatics fulfill two critical criteria: they assist in the drainage of cerebrospinal fluid components and enable immune cells to enter draining lymph nodes in a CCR7-dependent manner. Unlike other tissues, meningeal lymphatic endothelial cells do not undergo expansion during inflammation, and they express a unique transcriptional signature. Notably, the ablation of meningeal lymphatics diminishes pathology and reduces the inflammatory response of brain-reactive T cells during an animal model of multiple sclerosis. Our findings demonstrate that meningeal lymphatics govern inflammatory processes and immune surveillance of the CNS and pose a valuable target for therapeutic intervention.	For decades, the brain has been considered an immune-privileged organ, meaning that the brain was mainly ignored by the immune system and that the presence of immune cells, notably of the adaptive arm, was a hallmark of pathological conditions. Over the past few decades, the definition of the immune privilege continues to be refined. There has been evidence accumulating that shows that the immune system plays a role in proper brain function. This evidence may represent an effective source of therapeutic targets for neurological disorders. In this chapter, we discuss the recent advances in understanding the immunity of the brain and describe how tertiary lymphoid structures can be generated in the central nervous system, which might represent a new avenue to treat neurological disorders.	Neuroimmunologists aim to understand the interactions between the central nervous system and the immune system under both homeostatic and pathological conditions. The meninges, contrary to the brain parenchyma, are populated by numerous immune cells. Soluble factors produced by these cells are capable to diffuse into the brain parenchyma and influence the brain cells within the parenchyma, including neurons. In this unit, we will describe two protocols: analysis the meningeal compartment of rodents and the use flow cytometry to study the cells of the brain parenchyma (particularly neurons).	Microglia are brain-resident macrophages whose function affects a myriad of physiological processes and can in turn be affected by peripheral factors. In a recent issue of Cell, Garel, Ginhoux and colleagues describe how gender, developmental stage, and microbiome contribute to the transcriptome of microglia (Thion et al., 2018).	Recent discoveries of the glymphatic system and of meningeal lymphatic vessels have generated a lot of excitement, along with some degree of skepticism. Here, we summarize the state of the field and point out the gaps of knowledge that should be filled through further research. We discuss the glymphatic system as a system that allows CNS perfusion by the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and interstitial fluid (ISF). We also describe the recently characterized meningeal lymphatic vessels and their role in drainage of the brain ISF, CSF, CNS-derived molecules, and immune cells from the CNS and meninges to the peripheral (CNS-draining) lymph nodes. We speculate on the relationship between the two systems and their malfunction that may underlie some neurological diseases. Although much remains to be investigated, these new discoveries have changed our understanding of mechanisms underlying CNS immune privilege and CNS drainage. Future studies should explore the communications between the glymphatic system and meningeal lymphatics in CNS disorders and develop new therapeutic modalities targeting these systems.	Lymphatic vasculature drains interstitial fluids, which contain the tissue's waste products, and ensures immune surveillance of the tissues, allowing immune cell recirculation. Until recently, the CNS was considered to be devoid of a conventional lymphatic vasculature. The recent discovery in the meninges of a lymphatic network that drains the CNS calls into question classic models for the drainage of macromolecules and immune cells from the CNS. In the context of neurological disorders, the presence of a lymphatic system draining the CNS potentially offers a new player and a new avenue for therapy. In this review, we will attempt to integrate the known primary functions of the tissue lymphatic vasculature that exists in peripheral organs with the proposed function of meningeal lymphatic vessels in neurological disorders, specifically multiple sclerosis and Alzheimer's disease. We propose that these (and potentially other) neurological afflictions can be viewed as diseases with a neuro-lympho-vascular component and should be therapeutically targeted as such. 	NA	NA	Whereas the study of the interactions between the immune system and the central nervous system (CNS) has often focused on pathological conditions, the importance of neuroimmune communication in CNS homeostasis and function has become clear over that last two decades. Here we discuss the progression of our understanding of the interaction between the peripheral immune system and the CNS. We examine the notion of immune privilege of the CNS in light of both earlier findings and recent studies revealing a functional meningeal lymphatic system that drains cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) to the deep cervical lymph nodes, and consider the implications of a revised perspective on the immune privilege of the CNS on the etiology and pathology of different neurological disorders. 	NA
Machado, Andre	Neurosciences	30853407	30799493	30064319	29932378	29800707	29384450	29372880	29266520	29048606	29029200	5-bromo-2'-dexoyuridine (BrdU) is often used in neuroscience research as a marker of newly-divided cells. However, several studies suggest that BrdU can produce unwanted side effects, including changes in animal behavior and cellular function. In this study, we investigated the effect of BrdU injections on locomotor behavior in a rodent model of ischemic stroke. Ischemic strokes were induced in adult rats, and 50 mg/kg BrdU was intraperitoneally injected over 5 days beginning 2 weeks post-stroke, while control animals received vehicle. Locomotor activity was evaluated by videotaping the rats in their home cages for 30 min, beginning one hour after BrdU injection. BrdU-injected rats showed a nearly three-fold increase in locomotor activity compared to control animals. These findings suggest that BrdU induces a hyperlocomotor effect in rats following brain injury, pointing to the need for caution when interpreting behavioral results in such studies.	Deep brain stimulation (DBS) has been considered for patients with intractable pain syndromes since the 1950s. Although there is substantial experience reported in the literature, the indications are contested, especially in the United States where it remains off-label. Historically, the sensory-discriminative pain pathways were targeted. More recently, modulation of the affective sphere of pain has emerged as a plausible alternative. To systematically review the literature from studies that used contemporary DBS technology. Our aim is to summarize the current evidence of this therapy. A systematic search was conducted in the MEDLINE, EMBASE, and Cochrane libraries through July 2017 to review all studies using the current DBS technology primarily for pain treatment. Study characteristics including patient demographics, surgical technique, outcomes, and complications were collected. Twenty-two articles were included in this review. In total, 228 patients were implanted with a definitive DBS system for pain. The most common targets used were periaqueductal/periventricular gray matter region, ventral posterior lateral/posterior medial thalamus, or both. Poststroke pain, phantom limb pain, and brachial plexus injury were the most common specific indications for DBS. Outcomes varied between studies and across chronic pain diagnoses. Two different groups of investigators targeting the affective sphere of pain have demonstrated improvements in quality of life measures without significant reductions in pain scores. DBS outcomes for chronic pain are heterogeneous thus far. Future studies may focus on specific pain diagnosis rather than multiple syndromes and consider randomized placebo-controlled designs. DBS targeting the affective sphere of pain seems promising and deserves further investigation.	Ischemic stroke is a leading cause of disability worldwide, with profound economic costs. Poststroke motor impairment is the most commonly encountered deficit resulting in significant disability and is the primary driver of stroke-associated healthcare expenditures. Although many patients derive some degree of benefit from physical rehabilitation, a significant proportion continue to suffer from persistent motor impairment. Noninvasive brain stimulation, vagal nerve stimulation, epidural cortical stimulation, and deep brain stimulation (DBS) have all been studied as potential modalities to improve upon the benefits derived from physical therapy alone. These neuromodulatory therapies aim primarily to augment neuroplasticity and drive functional reorganization of the surviving perilesional cortex. The authors have proposed a novel and emerging therapeutic approach based on cerebellar DBS targeted at the dentate nucleus. Their rationale is based on the extensive reciprocal connectivity between the dentate nucleus and wide swaths of cerebral cortex via the dentatothalamocortical and corticopontocerebellar tracts, as well as the known limitations to motor rehabilitation imposed by crossed cerebellar diaschisis. Preclinical studies in rodent models of ischemic stroke have shown that cerebellar DBS promotes functional recovery in a frequency-dependent manner, with the most substantial benefits of the therapy noted at 30-Hz stimulation. The improvements in motor function are paralleled by increased expression of markers of synaptic plasticity, synaptogenesis, and neurogenesis in the perilesional cortex. Given the findings of preclinical studies, a first-in-human trial, Electrical Stimulation of the Dentate Nucleus Area (EDEN) for Improvement of Upper Extremity Hemiparesis Due to Ischemic Stroke: A Safety and Feasibility Study, commenced in 2016. Although the existing preclinical evidence is promising, the results of this Phase I trial and subsequent clinical trials will be necessary to determine the future applicability of this therapy.	OBJECTIVEThe number of patients who benefit from deep brain stimulation (DBS) for Parkinson's disease (PD) has increased significantly since the therapy was first approved by the FDA. Suboptimal outcomes, infection, or device failure are risks of the procedure and may require lead removal or repositioning. The authors present here the results of their series of revision and reimplantation surgeries.METHODSThe data were reviewed from all DBS intracranial lead removals, revisions, or reimplantations among patients with PD over a 6-year period at the authors' institution. The indications for these procedures were categorized as infection, suboptimal outcome, and device failure. Motor outcomes as well as lead location were analyzed before removal and after reimplant or revision.RESULTSThe final sample included 25 patients who underwent 34 lead removals. Thirteen patients had 18 leads reimplanted after removal. There was significant improvement in the motor scores after revision surgery among the patients who had the lead revised for a suboptimal outcome (p = 0.025). The mean vector distance of the new lead location compared to the previous location was 2.16 mm (SD 1.17), measured on an axial plane 3.5 mm below the anterior commissure-posterior commissure line. When these leads were analyzed by subgroup, the mean distance was 1.67 mm (SD 0.83 mm) among patients treated for infection and 2.73 mm (SD 1.31 mm) for those with suboptimal outcomes.CONCLUSIONSPatients with PD who undergo reimplantation surgery due to suboptimal outcome may experience significant benefits. Reimplantation after surgical infection seems feasible and overall safe.	Prior studies have shown that patient-reported allergies can be prognostic of poorer postoperative outcomes. The objective of this study was to investigate the correlation between self-reported allergies and outcomes after cervical or lumbar spine surgery. This is a retrospective cohort study at a single tertiary care institution. The patient sample included all patients undergoing cervical or lumbar spine surgery from 2009 to 2014. The primary outcome measure was change in the EuroQol-5 Dimensions (EQ-5D) after surgery. Secondary outcomes included changes in the Pain Disability Questionnaire (PDQ) and in the Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9), achievement of the minimal clinically important difference (MCID) in these measures, and cost of admission. Before and after surgery, EQ-5D, PDQ, and PHQ-9 were recorded for patients with available data. Paired Student t tests were used to compare changes in these measures after surgery. Multivariable linear and logistic regressions were used to assess the relationship between the log transformation of the total number of allergies and outcomes. A total of 592 cervical patients and 4,465 lumbar patients were included. The median number of reported allergies was two. The EQ-5D index increased from 0.539 to 0.703 for cervical patients and from 0.530 to 0.676 for lumbar patients (p&lt;.01 for both). Patients experienced significant pain improvement by the PDQ (80.1-58.2 for cervical patients and 79.4-58.1 for lumbar patients, p&lt;.01). Using multivariable logistic regression, the log transformation of the number of allergies predicted significantly higher odds of achieving the PDQ MCID (odds ratio [OR]=2.09, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.05-4.15, p=.02, for cervical patients; OR=1.30, 95% CI 1.03-1.68, p=.03, for lumbar patients). However, this relationship was not durable for patients with follow-up exceeding 1 year. The log transformation of the number of allergies for lumbar patients predicted a significantly increased cost of admission (β=$3,597, p&lt;.01) and trended toward significance among cervical patients (β=$1,842, p=.10). Patient-reported allergies correlate with subjective improvement in pain and disability after spine surgery and may serve as a marker of postoperative outcomes. The relationship between allergies and PDQ improvement may be secondary to the short-term expectation-actuality discrepancy, as this relationship was not durable beyond 1 year.	Poststroke pain syndrome (PSPS) is an often intractable disorder characterized by hemiparesis associated with unrelenting chronic pain. Although traditional analgesics have largely failed, integrative approaches targeting affective-cognitive spheres have started to show promise. Recently, we demonstrated that deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the ventral striatal area significantly improved the affective sphere of pain in patients with PSPS. In the present study, we examined whether electrophysiological correlates of pain anticipation were modulated by DBS that could serve as signatures of treatment effects. We recorded event-related fields (ERFs) of pain anticipation using magnetoencephalography (MEG) in 10 patients with PSPS preoperatively and postoperatively in DBS OFF and ON states. Simple visual cues evoked anticipation as patients awaited a painful (PS) or nonpainful stimulus (NPS) to the nonaffected or affected extremity. Preoperatively, ERFs showed no difference between PS and NPS anticipation to the affected extremity, possibly due to loss of salience in a network saturated by pain experience. DBS significantly modulated the early N1, consistent with improvements in affective networks involving restoration of salience and discrimination capacity. Additionally, DBS suppressed the posterior P2 (aberrant anticipatory anxiety) while enhancing the anterior N1 (cognitive and emotional regulation) in responders. DBS-induced changes in ERFs could potentially serve as signatures for clinical outcomes. NEW &amp; NOTEWORTHY We examined the electrophysiological correlates of pain affect in poststroke pain patients who underwent deep brain stimulation (DBS) targeting the ventral striatal area under a randomized, controlled trial. DBS significantly modulated early event-related components, particularly N1 and P2, measured with magnetoencephalography during a pain anticipatory task, compared with baseline and the DBS-OFF condition, pointing to possible mechanisms of action. DBS-induced changes in event-related fields could potentially serve as biomarkers for clinical outcomes.	OBJECTIVEThe authors' aim in this study was to evaluate placement accuracy and clinical outcomes in patients who underwent implantation of deep brain stimulation devices with the aid of frame-based stereotaxy and intraoperative MRI after induction of general anesthesia.METHODSThirty-three patients with movement disorders (27 with Parkinson's disease) underwent implantation of unilateral or bilateral deep brain stimulation systems (64 leads total). All patients underwent the implantation procedure with standard frame-based techniques under general anesthesia and without microelectrode recording. MR images were acquired immediately after the procedure and fused to the preoperative plan to verify accuracy. To evaluate clinical outcome, different scales were used to assess quality of life (EQ-5D), activities of daily living (Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale [UPDRS] part II), and motor function (UPDRS part III during off- and on-medication and off- and on-stimulation states). Accuracy was assessed by comparing the coordinates (x, y, and z) from the preoperative plan and coordinates from the tip of the lead on intraoperative MRI and postoperative CT scans.RESULTSThe EQ-5D score improved or remained stable in 71% of the patients. When in the off-medication/on-stimulation state, all patients reported significant improvement in UPDRS III score at the last follow-up (p &lt; 0.001), with a reduction of 25.2 points (46.3%) (SD 14.7 points and 23.5%, respectively). There was improvement or stability in the UPDRS II scores for 68% of the Parkinson's patients. For 2 patients, the stereotactic error was deemed significant based on intraoperative MRI findings. In these patients, the lead was removed and replaced after correcting for the error during the same procedure. Postoperative lead revision was not necessary in any of the patients. Based on findings from the last intraoperative MRI study, the mean difference between the tip of the electrode and the planned target was 0.82 mm (SD 0.5 mm, p = 0.006) for the x-axis, 0.67 mm (SD 0.5 mm, p &lt; 0.001) for the y-axis, and 0.78 mm (SD 0.7 mm, p = 0.008) for the z-axis. On average, the euclidian distance was 1.52 mm (SD 0.6 mm). In patients who underwent bilateral implantation, accuracy was further evaluated comparing the first implanted side and the second implanted side. There was a significant mediolateral (x-axis) difference (p = 0.02) in lead accuracy between the first (mean 1.02 mm, SD 0.57 mm) and the second (mean 0.66 mm, SD 0.50 mm) sides. However, no significant difference was found for the y- and z-axes (p = 0.10 and p = 0.89, respectively).CONCLUSIONSFrame-based DBS implantation under general anesthesia with intraoperative MRI verification of lead location is safe, accurate, precise, and effective compared with standard implantation performed using awake intraoperative physiology. More clinical trials are necessary to directly compare outcomes of each technique.	Accurate electrode implantation is a major goal of deep brain stimulation (DBS) surgery. Intraoperative physiology with microelectrode recording (MER) is routinely used to refine stereotactic accuracy during awake electrode implantation. Recently, portable imaging systems such as the O-arm have become widely available and can be used in isolation or in association with MER to guide DBS lead placement. The aim of this study was to evaluate how the routine use of the O-arm affected DBS surgery safety, efficiency, and outcomes. Two cohorts of patients with Parkinson's disease who underwent MER-guided awake subthalamic DBS lead implantation with and without O-arm were compared. We examined the total number of microelectrode and macroeletrode passes during each surgery, procedure duration, surgical complications, lead revisions, and motor outcomes. A total of 50 procedures in 41 unique patients were analyzed, of which 26 were performed without O-arm and 24 performed without the O-arm. The mean number of microelectrode passes was 2.46 (SD = 0.99) in the group without O-arm utilization, compared to 1.29 (SD = 0.75) in the group with O-arm usage (p &lt; 0.001). A significant reduction was also found in procedure duration (p = 0.016). No differences were found in motor outcomes between groups. The use of the O-arm during DBS lead implantation was associated with significantly fewer brain cannulations for microelectrode recording as well as reduced surgical time.	A host of influences contribute to cognitive and behavioral changes following deep brain stimulation. The location of the active cathode is likely an important variable but it has received little attention. To determine whether active contact location relative to the subthalamic nucleus and other neighboring structures is related to nonmotor outcomes. We identified a retrospective, cross-sectional sample of 46 patients who underwent subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation for treatment of idiopathic Parkinson's disease. T-tests or nonparametric equivalents were used to detect baseline differences between unilateral left, unilateral right, and bilateral surgical groups. Correlation and partial correlational analyses identified relationships between contact location variables and alterations in cognitive, mood, quality of life, motor, and disease variables. Medial contact locations within the left subthalamic nucleus were correlated with improvements in self-reported mood (r12 = -0.78, P = .001; 95% confidence interval [CI] = -0.43 to -0.93) but worsening semantic fluency (r26 = -0.38, P = .048; 95% CI = -0.01 to -0.66). Phonemic fluency worsened with more posterior left placement (r34 = 0.35, P = .036; 95% CI = 0.03 to 0.61). Memory outcome was related to right hemisphere stimulation voltage (r29 = -0.40, P = .022; 95% CI = -0.05 to -0.66), which is likely a proxy for variable electrode location. Location of the active contact is related to nonmotor outcomes, even in electrodes that are adequately placed. This is relevant to clinical care as there appears to be a trade-off between mood and fluency abilities that should be considered during surgical planning according to preoperative patient characteristics.	Chronic deep brain stimulation of the rodent lateral cerebellar nucleus (LCN) has been demonstrated to enhance motor recovery following cortical ischemia. This effect is concurrent with synaptogenesis and expression of long-term potentiation markers in the perilesional cerebral cortex. To further investigate the cellular changes associated with chronic LCN stimulation in the ischemic rodent by examining neurogenesis along the cerebellothalamocortical pathway. Rats were trained on the pasta matrix task, followed by induction of cortical ischemia and electrode implantation in the contralesional LCN. Electrical stimulation was initiated 6 wk after stroke induction and continued for 4 wk prior to sacrifice. Neurogenesis was examined using immunohistochemistry. Treated animals showed enhanced performance on the pasta matrix task relative to sham controls. Increased cell proliferation colabeled with 5'-Bromo-2'-deoxyuridine and neurogenic markers (doublecortin) was observed in the perilesional cortex as well as bilateral mediodorsal and ventrolateral thalamic subnuclei in treated vs untreated animals. The neurogenic effect at the level of motor cortex was selective, with stimulation-treated animals showing greater glutamatergic neurogenesis but significantly less GABAergic neurogenesis. These findings suggest that LCN deep brain stimulation modulates postinjury neurogenesis, providing a possible mechanistic foundation for the associated enhancement in poststroke motor recovery.
Marasco, Paul	Biomedical Engineering	30967581	30663709	30453897	29773999	29540617	29194626	29182648	21252109	21106839	19369486	Object stiffness discrimination is fundamental to shaping the way we interact with our environment. Investigating the sensorimotor mechanisms underpinning stiffness discrimination may help further our understanding of healthy and sensory-impaired upper limb function. We developed a metric that leverages sensory discrimination techniques and a foraging-based analysis to characterize participant accuracy and discrimination processes of sensorimotor control. Our metric required searching and discriminating two variants of test-object: rubber blocks and spring cells, which emphasized cutaneous-force and proprioceptive feedback, respectively. We measured the number of test-objects handled, selection accuracy, and foraging duration. These values were used to derive six indicators of performance. We observed higher discrimination accuracies, with quicker search and handling durations, for blocks compared to spring cells. Correlative analyses of accuracy, error rates, and foraging times suggested that the block and spring variants were, in fact, unique sensory tasks. These results provide evidence that our metric is sensitive to the contributions of sensory feedback, motor control, and task performance strategy, and will likely be effective in further characterizing the impact of sensory feedback on motor control in healthy and sensory-impaired populations.	This work describes a methodological framework that can be used to explicitly and implicitly characterize the sense of agency developed over the neural-machine interface (NMI) control of sensate virtual or robotic prosthetic hands. The formation of agency is fundamental in distinguishing the actions that we perform with our limbs as being our own. By striving to incorporate advanced upper-limb prostheses into these same perceptual mechanisms, we can begin to integrate an artificial limb more closely into the user's existing cognitive framework for limb control. This has important implications in promoting user acceptance, use, and effective control of advanced upper-limb prostheses. In this protocol, participants control a virtual prosthetic hand and receive kinesthetic sensory feedback through their preexisting NMIs. A series of virtual grasping tasks are performed and perturbations are systematically introduced to the kinesthetic feedback and virtual hand movements. Two separate measures of agency are employed: established psychophysical questionnaires (to capture the explicit experience of agency) and a time interval estimate task to capture the implicit sense of agency (intentional binding). Results of this protocol (questionnaire scores and time interval estimates) can be analyzed to quantify the extent of agency formation.	Indices of inter-evaluator reliability are used in many fields such as computational linguistics, psychology, and medical science; however, the interpretation of resulting values and determination of appropriate thresholds lack context and are often guided only by arbitrary &quot;rules of thumb&quot; or simply not addressed at all. Our goal for this work was to develop a method for determining the relationship between inter-evaluator agreement and error to facilitate meaningful interpretation of values, thresholds, and reliability. Three expert human evaluators completed a video analysis task, and averaged their results together to create a reference dataset of 300 time measurements. We simulated unique combinations of systematic error and random error onto the reference dataset to generate 4900 new hypothetical evaluators (each with 300 time measurements). The systematic errors and random errors made by the hypothetical evaluator population were approximated as the mean and variance of a normally-distributed error signal. Calculating the error (using percent error) and inter-evaluator agreement (using Krippendorff's alpha) between each hypothetical evaluator and the reference dataset allowed us to establish a mathematical model and value envelope of the worst possible percent error for any given amount of agreement. We used the relationship between inter-evaluator agreement and error to make an informed judgment of an acceptable threshold for Krippendorff's alpha within the context of our specific test. To demonstrate the utility of our modeling approach, we calculated the percent error and Krippendorff's alpha between the reference dataset and a new cohort of trained human evaluators and used our contextually-derived Krippendorff's alpha threshold as a gauge of evaluator quality. Although all evaluators had relatively high agreement (&gt; 0.9) compared to the rule of thumb (0.8), our agreement threshold permitted evaluators with low error, while rejecting one evaluator with relatively high error. We found that our approach established threshold values of reliability, within the context of our evaluation criteria, that were far less permissive than the typically accepted &quot;rule of thumb&quot; cutoff for Krippendorff's alpha. This procedure provides a less arbitrary method for determining a reliability threshold and can be tailored to work within the context of any reliability index.	Fitts' law models the relationship between amplitude, precision, and speed of rapid movements. It is widely used to quantify performance in pointing tasks, study human-computer interaction, and generally to understand perceptual-motor information processes, including research to model performance in isometric force production tasks. Applying Fitts' law to an isometric grip force task would allow for quantifying grasp performance in rehabilitative medicine and may aid research on prosthetic control and design. We examined whether Fitts' law would hold when participants attempted to accurately produce their intended force output while grasping a manipulandum when presented with images of various everyday objects (we termed this the implicit task). Although our main interest was the implicit task, to benchmark it and establish validity, we examined performance against a more standard visual feedback condition via a digital force-feedback meter on a video monitor (explicit task). Next, we progressed from visual force feedback with force meter targets to the same targets without visual force feedback (operating largely on feedforward control with tactile feedback). This provided an opportunity to see if Fitts' law would hold without vision, and allowed us to progress toward the more naturalistic implicit task (which does not include visual feedback). Finally, we changed the nature of the targets from requiring explicit force values presented as arrows on a force-feedback meter (explicit targets) to the more naturalistic and intuitive target forces implied by images of objects (implicit targets). With visual force feedback the relation between task difficulty and the time to produce the target grip force was predicted by Fitts' law (average r<sup>2</sup> = 0.82). Without vision, average grip force scaled accurately although force variability was insensitive to the target presented. In contrast, images of everyday objects generated more reliable grip forces without the visualized force meter. In sum, population means were well-described by Fitts' law for explicit targets with vision (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.96) and implicit targets (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.89), but not as well-described for explicit targets without vision (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.54). Implicit targets should provide a realistic see-object-squeeze-object test using Fitts' law to quantify the relative speed-accuracy relationship of any given grasper.	To effortlessly complete an intentional movement, the brain needs feedback from the body regarding the movement's progress. This largely nonconscious kinesthetic sense helps the brain to learn relationships between motor commands and outcomes to correct movement errors. Prosthetic systems for restoring function have predominantly focused on controlling motorized joint movement. Without the kinesthetic sense, however, these devices do not become intuitively controllable. We report a method for endowing human amputees with a kinesthetic perception of dexterous robotic hands. Vibrating the muscles used for prosthetic control via a neural-machine interface produced the illusory perception of complex grip movements. Within minutes, three amputees integrated this kinesthetic feedback and improved movement control. Combining intent, kinesthesia, and vision instilled participants with a sense of agency over the robotic movements. This feedback approach for closed-loop control opens a pathway to seamless integration of minds and machines.	NA	Kinesthesia is the sense of limb movement. It is fundamental to efficient motor control, yet its neurophysiological components remain poorly understood. The contributions of primary muscle spindles and cutaneous afferents to the kinesthetic sense have been well studied; however, potential contributions from muscle sensory group responses that are different than the muscle spindles have not been ruled out. Electrophysiological recordings in peripheral nerves and brains of male Sprague Dawley rats with a degloved forelimb preparation provide evidence of a rapidly adapting muscle sensory group response that overlaps with vibratory inputs known to generate illusionary perceptions of limb movement in humans (kinesthetic illusion). This group was characteristically distinct from type Ia muscle spindle fibers, the receptor historically attributed to limb movement sensation, suggesting that type Ia muscle spindle fibers may not be the sole carrier of kinesthetic information. The sensory-neural structure of muscles is complex and there are a number of possible sources for this response group; with Golgi tendon organs being the most likely candidate. The rapidly adapting muscle sensory group response projected to proprioceptive brain regions, the rodent homolog of cortical area 3a and the second somatosensory area (S2), with similar adaption and frequency response profiles between the brain and peripheral nerves. Their representational organization was muscle-specific (myocentric) and magnified for proximal and multi-articulate limb joints. Projection to proprioceptive brain areas, myocentric representational magnification of muscles prone to movement error, overlap with illusionary vibrational input, and resonant frequencies of volitional motor unit contraction suggest that this group response may be involved with limb movement processing.	Existing prosthetic limbs do not provide amputees with cutaneous feedback. Tactile feedback is essential to intuitive control of a prosthetic limb and it is now clear that the sense of body self-identification is also linked to cutaneous touch. Here we have created an artificial sense of touch for a prosthetic limb by coupling a pressure sensor on the hand through a robotic stimulator to surgically redirected cutaneous sensory nerves (targeted reinnervation) that once served the lost limb. We hypothesize that providing physiologically relevant cutaneous touch feedback may help an amputee incorporate an artificial limb into his or her self image. To investigate this we used a robotic touch interface coupled with a prosthetic limb and tested it with two targeted reinnervation amputees in a series of experiments fashioned after the Rubber Hand Illusion. Results from both subjective (self-reported) and objective (physiological) measures of embodiment (questionnaires, psychophysical temporal order judgements and residual limb temperature measurements) indicate that returning physiologically appropriate cutaneous feedback from a prosthetic limb drives a perceptual shift towards embodiment of the device for these amputees. Measurements provide evidence that the illusion created is vivid. We suggest that this may help amputees to more effectively incorporate an artificial limb into their self image, providing the possibility that a prosthesis becomes not only a tool, but also an integrated body part.	Prosthetic limbs are difficult to control and do not provide sensory feedback. Targeted reinnervation was developed as a neural-machine interface for amputees to address these issues. In targeted reinnervation, amputated nerves are redirected to proximal muscles and skin, creating nerve interfaces for prosthesis control and sensory feedback. Touching the reinnervated skin causes sensation to be projected to the missing limb. Here we use electrophysiological brain recording in the Sprague Dawley rat to investigate the changes to somatosensory cortex (S1) following amputation and nerve redirection with the intent to provide insight into the sensory phenomena observed in human targeted reinnervation amputees. Recordings revealed that redirected nerves established an expanded representation in S1, which may help to explain the projected sensations that encompass large areas of the hand in targeted reinnervation amputees. These results also provide evidence that the reinnervated target skin could serve as a line of communication from a prosthesis to cortical hand processing regions. S1 border regions were simultaneously responsive to reinnervated input and also vibrissae, lower lip, and hindfoot, suggesting competition for deactivated cortical territory. Electrically evoked potential latencies from reinnervated skin to cortex suggest direct connection of the redirected afferents to the forepaw processing region of S1. Latencies also provide evidence that the widespread reactivation of S1 cortex may arise from central anatomical interconnectivity. Targeted reinnervation offers the opportunity to examine the cortical plasticity effects when behaviorally important sensory afferents are redirected from their original location to a new skin surface on a different part of the body.	Targeted reinnervation is a new neural-machine interface that has been developed to help improve the function of new-generation prosthetic limbs. Targeted reinnervation is a surgical procedure that takes the nerves that once innervated a severed limb and redirects them to proximal muscle and skin sites. The sensory afferents of the redirected nerves reinnervate the skin overlying the transfer site. This creates a sensory expression of the missing limb in the amputee's reinnervated skin. When these individuals are touched on this reinnervated skin they feel as though they are being touched on their missing limb. Targeted reinnervation takes nerves that once served the hand, a skin region of high functional importance, and redirects them to less functionally relevant skin areas adjacent to the amputation site. In an effort to better understand the sensory capacity of the reinnervated target skin following this procedure, we examined grating orientation thresholds and point localization thresholds on two amputees who had undergone the targeted reinnervation surgery. Grating orientation thresholds and point localization thresholds were also measured on the contralateral normal skin of the targeted reinnervation amputees and on analogous sites in able-bodied controls. Grating orientation thresholds for the reinnervated skin of the targeted reinnervation amputees were found to be similar to normal ranges for both the amputees' contralateral skin and also for the control population. Point localization thresholds for these amputees were found to be lower for their reinnervated skin than for their contralateral skin. Reinnervated point localization thresholds values were also lower in comparison to homologous chest sites on the control population. Mechanisms appear to be in place to maximize re-established touch input in targeted reinnervation amputees. It seems that sound sensory function is provided to the denervated skin of the residual limb when connected to afferent pathways once serving highly functionally relevant regions of the brain. This suggests that tactile interface devices could be used to give a physiologically appropriate sense of touch to a prosthetic limb, which would likely help with better functional utilization of the prosthetic device and possibly help to more effectively integrate the device with the user's self-image.
Mascha, Edward	Quantitative Health Sciences	31008746	30096083	29750691	29346210	29189214	28817531	28786843	28682958	28301418	25929547	Perioperative investigators and professionals increasingly seek to evaluate whether implementing systematic practice changes improves outcomes compared to a previous routine. Cluster randomized trials are the optimal design to assess a systematic practice change but are often impractical; investigators, therefore, often select a before-after design. In this Statistical Grand Rounds, we first discuss biases inherent in a before-after design, including confounding due to periods being completely separated by time, regression to the mean, the Hawthorne effect, and others. Many of these biases can be at least partially addressed by using appropriate designs and analyses, which we discuss. Our focus is on segmented regression of an interrupted time series, which does not require a concurrent control group; we also present alternative designs including difference-in-difference, stepped wedge, and cluster randomization. Conducting segmented regression well requires a sufficient number of time points within each period, along with a robust set of potentially confounding variables. This method compares preintervention and postintervention changes over time, divergences in the outcome when an intervention begins, and trends observed with the intervention compared to trends projected without it. Difference-in-difference methods add a concurrent control, enabling yet stronger inference. When done well, the discussed methods permit robust inference on the effect of an intervention, albeit still requiring assumptions and having limitations. Methods are demonstrated using an interrupted time series study in which anesthesiologists took responsibility for an adult medical emergency team from internal medicine physicians in an attempt to improve outcomes.	To use a diagnostic test effectively and consistently in their practice, clinicians need to know how well the test distinguishes between those patients who have the suspected acute or chronic disease and those patients who do not. Clinicians are equally interested and usually more concerned whether, based on the results of a screening test, a given patient actually: (1) does or does not have the suspected disease; or (2) will or will not subsequently experience the adverse event or outcome. Medical tests that are performed to screen for a risk factor, diagnose a disease, or to estimate a patient's prognosis are frequently a key component of a clinical research study. Like therapeutic interventions, medical tests require proper analysis and demonstrated efficacy before being incorporated into routine clinical practice. This basic statistical tutorial, thus, discusses the fundamental concepts and techniques related to diagnostic testing and medical decision-making, including sensitivity and specificity, positive predictive value and negative predictive value, positive and negative likelihood ratio, receiver operating characteristic curve, diagnostic accuracy, choosing a best cut-point for a continuous variable biomarker, comparing methods on diagnostic accuracy, and design of a diagnostic accuracy study.	Observational data are often readily available or less costly to obtain than conducting a randomized controlled trial. With observational data, investigators may statistically evaluate the relationship between a treatment or therapy and outcomes. However, inherent in observational data is the potential for confounding arising from the nonrandom assignment of treatment. In this statistical grand rounds, we describe the use of propensity score methods (ie, using the probability of receiving treatment given covariates) to reduce bias due to measured confounders in anesthesia and perioperative medicine research. We provide a description of the theory and background appropriate for the anesthesia researcher and describe statistical assumptions that should be assessed in the course of a research study using the propensity score. We further describe 2 propensity score methods for evaluating the association of treatment or therapy with outcomes, propensity score matching and inverse probability of treatment weighting, and compare to covariate-adjusted regression analysis. We distinguish several estimators of treatment effect available with propensity score methods, including the average treatment effect, the average treatment effect for the treated, and average treatment effect for the controls or untreated, and compare to the conditional treatment effect in covariate-adjusted regression. We highlight the relative advantages of the various methods and estimators, describe analysis assumptions and how to critically evaluate them, and demonstrate methods in an analysis of thoracic epidural analgesia and new-onset atrial arrhythmias after pulmonary resection.	Inferential statistics relies heavily on the central limit theorem and the related law of large numbers. According to the central limit theorem, regardless of the distribution of the source population, a sample estimate of that population will have a normal distribution, but only if the sample is large enough. The related law of large numbers holds that the central limit theorem is valid as random samples become large enough, usually defined as an n ≥ 30. In research-related hypothesis testing, the term &quot;statistically significant&quot; is used to describe when an observed difference or association has met a certain threshold. This significance threshold or cut-point is denoted as alpha (α) and is typically set at .05. When the observed P value is less than α, one rejects the null hypothesis (Ho) and accepts the alternative. Clinical significance is even more important than statistical significance, so treatment effect estimates and confidence intervals should be regularly reported. A type I error occurs when the Ho of no difference or no association is rejected, when in fact the Ho is true. A type II error occurs when the Ho is not rejected, when in fact there is a true population effect. Power is the probability of detecting a true difference, effect, or association if it truly exists. Sample size justification and power analysis are key elements of a study design. Ethical concerns arise when studies are poorly planned or underpowered. When calculating sample size for comparing groups, 4 quantities are needed: α, type II error, the difference or effect of interest, and the estimated variability of the outcome variable. Sample size increases for increasing variability and power, and for decreasing α and decreasing difference to detect. Sample size for a given relative reduction in proportions depends heavily on the proportion in the control group itself, and increases as the proportion decreases. Sample size for single-group studies estimating an unknown parameter is based on the desired precision of the estimate. Interim analyses assessing for efficacy and/or futility are great tools to save time and money, as well as allow science to progress faster, but are only 1 component considered when a decision to stop or continue a trial is made.	Hypothesis testing involves posing both a null hypothesis and an alternative hypothesis. This basic statistical tutorial discusses the appropriate use, including their so-called assumptions, of the common unadjusted bivariate tests for hypothesis testing and thus comparing study sample data for a difference or association. The appropriate choice of a statistical test is predicated on the type of data being analyzed and compared. The unpaired or independent samples t test is used to test the null hypothesis that the 2 population means are equal, thereby accepting the alternative hypothesis that the 2 population means are not equal. The unpaired t test is intended for comparing dependent continuous (interval or ratio) data from 2 study groups. A common mistake is to apply several unpaired t tests when comparing data from 3 or more study groups. In this situation, an analysis of variance with post hoc (posttest) intragroup comparisons should instead be applied. Another common mistake is to apply a series of unpaired t tests when comparing sequentially collected data from 2 study groups. In this situation, a repeated-measures analysis of variance, with tests for group-by-time interaction, and post hoc comparisons, as appropriate, should instead be applied in analyzing data from sequential collection points. The paired t test is used to assess the difference in the means of 2 study groups when the sample observations have been obtained in pairs, often before and after an intervention in each study subject. The Pearson chi-square test is widely used to test the null hypothesis that 2 unpaired categorical variables, each with 2 or more nominal levels (values), are independent of each other. When the null hypothesis is rejected, 1 concludes that there is a probable association between the 2 unpaired categorical variables. When comparing 2 groups on an ordinal or nonnormally distributed continuous outcome variable, the 2-sample t test is usually not appropriate. The Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney test is instead preferred. When making paired comparisons on data that are ordinal, or continuous but nonnormally distributed, the Wilcoxon signed-rank test can be used. In analyzing their data, researchers should consider the continued merits of these simple yet equally valid unadjusted bivariate statistical tests. However, the appropriate use of an unadjusted bivariate test still requires a solid understanding of its utility, assumptions (requirements), and limitations. This understanding will mitigate the risk of misleading findings, interpretations, and conclusions.	Epidemiologists seek to make a valid inference about the causal effect between an exposure and a disease in a specific population, using representative sample data from a specific population. Clinical researchers likewise seek to make a valid inference about the association between an intervention and outcome(s) in a specific population, based upon their randomly collected, representative sample data. Both do so by using the available data about the sample variable to make a valid estimate about its corresponding or underlying, but unknown population parameter. Random error in an experiment can be due to the natural, periodic fluctuation or variation in the accuracy or precision of virtually any data sampling technique or health measurement tool or scale. In a clinical research study, random error can be due to not only innate human variability but also purely chance. Systematic error in an experiment arises from an innate flaw in the data sampling technique or measurement instrument. In the clinical research setting, systematic error is more commonly referred to as systematic bias. The most commonly encountered types of bias in anesthesia, perioperative, critical care, and pain medicine research include recall bias, observational bias (Hawthorne effect), attrition bias, misclassification or informational bias, and selection bias. A confounding variable is a factor associated with both the exposure of interest and the outcome of interest. A confounding variable (confounding factor or confounder) is a variable that correlates (positively or negatively) with both the exposure and outcome. Confounding is typically not an issue in a randomized trial because the randomized groups are sufficiently balanced on all potential confounding variables, both observed and nonobserved. However, confounding can be a major problem with any observational (nonrandomized) study. Ignoring confounding in an observational study will often result in a &quot;distorted&quot; or incorrect estimate of the association or treatment effect. Interaction among variables, also known as effect modification, exists when the effect of 1 explanatory variable on the outcome depends on the particular level or value of another explanatory variable. Bias and confounding are common potential explanations for statistically significant associations between exposure and outcome when the true relationship is noncausal. Understanding interactions is vital to proper interpretation of treatment effects. These complex concepts should be consistently and appropriately considered whenever one is not only designing but also analyzing and interpreting data from a randomized trial or observational study.	Data fabrication and scientific misconduct have been recently uncovered in the anesthesia literature, partly via the work of John Carlisle. In a recent article in Anaesthesia, Carlisle analyzed 5087 randomized clinical trials from anesthesia and general medicine journals from 2000 to 2015. He concluded that in about 6% of studies, data comparing randomized groups on baseline variables, before the given intervention, were either too similar or dissimilar compared to that expected by usual sampling variability under the null hypothesis. Carlisle used the Stouffer-Fisher method of combining P values in Table 1 (the conventional table reporting baseline patient characteristics) for each study, then calculated trial P values and assessed whether they followed a uniform distribution across studies. Extreme P values targeted studies as likely to contain data fabrication or errors. In this Statistical Grand Rounds article, we explain Carlisle's methods, highlight perceived limitations of the proposed approach, and offer recommendations. Our main findings are (1) independence was assumed between variables in a study, which is often false and would lead to &quot;false positive&quot; findings; (2) an &quot;unusual&quot; result from a trial cannot easily be concluded to represent fraud; (3) utilized cutoff values for determining extreme P values were arbitrary; (4) trials were analyzed as if simple randomization was used, introducing bias; (5) not all P values can be accurately generated from summary statistics in a Table 1, sometimes giving incorrect conclusions; (6) small numbers of P values to assess outlier status within studies is not reliable; (7) utilized method to assess deviations from expected distributions may stack the deck; (8) P values across trials assumed to be independent; (9) P value variability not accounted for; and (10) more detailed methods needed to understand exactly what was done. It is not yet known to what extent these concerns affect the accuracy of Carlisle's results. We recommend that Carlisle's methods be improved before widespread use (applying them to every manuscript submitted for publication). Furthermore, lack of data integrity and fraud should ideally be assessed using multiple simultaneous statistical methods to yield more confident results. More sophisticated methods are needed for nonrandomized trials, randomized trial data reported beyond Table 1, and combating growing fraudster sophistication. We encourage all authors to more carefully scrutinize their own reporting. Finally, we believe that reporting of suspected data fraud and integrity issues should be done more discretely and directly by the involved journal to protect honest authors from the stigma of being associated with potential fraud.	One of the first steps in designing and conducting a research study is identifying the primary and any secondary study outcomes. In an experimental, quasi-experimental, or analytic observational research study, the primary study outcomes arise from and align directly with the primary study aim or objective. Likewise, any secondary study outcomes arise from and directly align with any secondary study aim or objective. One designated primary study outcome then forms the basis for and is incorporated literally into the stated hypothesis. In a Methods section, authors clearly state and define each primary and any secondary study outcome variable. In the same Methods section, authors clearly describe how all primary and any secondary study outcome variables were measured. Enough detail is provided so that a clinician, statistician, or informatician can know exactly what is being measured and that other investigators could duplicate the measurements in their research venue. The authors provide published substantiation (preferably) or other documented evidence of the validity and reliability of any applied measurement instrument, tool, or scale. A common pitfall-and often fatal study design flaw-is the application of a newly created (&quot;home-grown&quot;) or ad hoc modification of an existing measurement instrument, tool, or scale-without any supporting evidence of its validity and reliability. An optimal primary outcome is the one for which there is the most existing or plausible evidence of being associated with the exposure of interest or intervention. Including too many primary outcomes can (a) lead to an unfocused research question and study and (b) present problems with interpretation if the treatment effect differed across the outcomes. Inclusion of secondary variables in the study design and the resulting manuscript needs to be justified. Secondary outcomes are particularly helpful if they lend supporting evidence for the primary endpoint. A composite endpoint is an endpoint consisting of several outcome variables that are typically correlated with each. In designing a study, researchers limit components of a composite endpoint to variables on which the intervention of interest would most plausibly have an effect, and optimally with preliminary evidence of an effect. Ideally, components of a strong composite endpoint have similar treatment effect, frequency, and severity-with the most important being similar severity.	Writing a manuscript for a medical journal is very akin to writing a newspaper article-albeit a scholarly one. Like any journalist, you have a story to tell. You need to tell your story in a way that is easy to follow and makes a compelling case to the reader. Although recommended since the beginning of the 20th century, the conventional Introduction-Methods-Results-And-Discussion (IMRAD) scientific reporting structure has only been the standard since the 1980s. The Introduction should be focused and succinct in communicating the significance, background, rationale, study aims or objectives, and the primary (and secondary, if appropriate) study hypotheses. Hypothesis testing involves posing both a null and an alternative hypothesis. The null hypothesis proposes that no difference or association exists on the outcome variable of interest between the interventions or groups being compared. The alternative hypothesis is the opposite of the null hypothesis and thus typically proposes that a difference in the population does exist between the groups being compared on the parameter of interest. Most investigators seek to reject the null hypothesis because of their expectation that the studied intervention does result in a difference between the study groups or that the association of interest does exist. Therefore, in most clinical and basic science studies and manuscripts, the alternative hypothesis is stated, not the null hypothesis. Also, in the Introduction, the alternative hypothesis is typically stated in the direction of interest, or the expected direction. However, when assessing the association of interest, researchers typically look in both directions (ie, favoring 1 group or the other) by conducting a 2-tailed statistical test because the true direction of the effect is typically not known, and either direction would be important to report.	Little is known about the relationship between intraoperative blood pressure variability and mortality after noncardiac surgery. Therefore, the authors tested the hypothesis that blood pressure variability, independent from absolute blood pressure, is associated with increased 30-day mortality. Baseline and intraoperative variables plus 30-day mortality were obtained for 104,401 adults having noncardiac surgery lasting 60 min or longer. In confounder-adjusted models, the authors evaluated the associations between 30-day mortality and both time-weighted average intraoperative mean arterial pressure (TWA-MAP) and measures of intraoperative MAP variability--including generalized average real variability of MAP (ARV-MAP) and SD of MAP (SD-MAP). Mean ± SD TWA-MAP was 84 ± 10 mmHg, and ARV-MAP was 2.5 ± 1.3 mmHg/min. TWA-MAP was strongly related to 30-day mortality, which more than tripled as TWA-MAP decreased from 80 to 50 mmHg. ARV-MAP was only marginally related to 30-day mortality (P = 0.033) after adjusting for TWA-MAP. Compared with median ARV-MAP, odds ratio (95% CI) for 30-day mortality was 1.14 (1.03 to 1.25) for low ARV-MAP (first quartile) and 0.94 (0.88 to 0.99) for high ARV-MAP (third quartile). Odds of 30-day mortality decreased as five-level categorized ARV-MAP increased (0.92; 0.87 to 0.99 for one category increase; P = 0.015). Secondarily, cumulative duration of MAP less than 50, 55, 60, 70, and 80 mmHg was associated with increased odds of 30-day mortality (all P &lt; 0.001). Although lower mean arterial pressure is strongly associated with mortality, lower intraoperative blood pressure variability per se is only mildly associated with postoperative mortality after noncardiac surgery.
Mata, Ignacio	Genomic Medicine Institute	30765263	29367946	28657124	28649619	28526295	28268100	27943640	27111571	26399558	26296077	Mutations in the glucocerebrosidase (GBA) gene are an important risk factor for Parkinson's disease (PD). However, most GBA genetic studies in PD have been performed in patients of European origin and very few data are available in other populations. We sequenced the entire GBA coding region in 602 PD patients and 319 controls from Colombia and Peru enrolled as part of the Latin American Research Consortium on the Genetics of Parkinson's disease (LARGE-PD). We observed a significantly higher proportion of GBA mutation carriers in patients compared to healthy controls (5.5% vs 1.6%; OR = 4.3, p = 0.004). Interestingly, the frequency of mutations in Colombian patients (9.9%) was more than two-fold greater than in Peruvian patients (4.2%) and other European-derived populations reported in the literature (4-5%). This was primarily due to the presence of a population-specific mutation (p.K198E) found only in the Colombian cohort. We also observed that the age at onset was significantly earlier in GBA carriers when compared to non-carriers (47.1 ± 14.2 y vs. 55.9 ± 14.2 y; p = 0.0004). These findings suggest that GBA mutations are strongly associated with PD risk and earlier age at onset in Peru and Colombia. The high frequency of GBA carriers among Colombian PD patients (∼10%) makes this population especially well-suited for novel therapeutic approaches that target GBA-related PD.	[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1038/s41531-017-0020-6.].	NA	Mutations in Leucine-Rich Repeat Kinase 2 (LRRK2), primarily located in codons G2019 and R1441, represent the most common genetic cause of Parkinson's disease in European-derived populations. However, little is known about the frequency of these mutations in Latin American populations. In addition, a prior study suggested that a LRRK2 polymorphism (p.Q1111H) specific to Latino and Amerindian populations might be a risk factor for Parkinson's disease, but this finding requires replication. We screened 1734 Parkinson's disease patients and 1097 controls enrolled in the Latin American Research Consortium on the Genetics of Parkinson's disease (LARGE-PD), which includes sites in Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Uruguay. Genotypes were determined by TaqMan assay (p.G2019S and p.Q1111H) or by sequencing of exon 31 (p.R1441C/G/H/S). Admixture proportion was determined using a panel of 29 ancestry informative markers. We identified a total of 29 Parkinson's disease patients (1.7%) who carried p.G2019S and the frequency ranged from 0.2% in Peru to 4.2% in Uruguay. Only two Parkinson's disease patients carried p.R1441G and one patient carried p.R1441C. There was no significant difference in the frequency of p.Q1111H in patients (3.8%) compared to controls (3.1%; OR 1.02, p = 0.873). The frequency of LRRK2-p.G2019S varied greatly between different Latin American countries and was directly correlated with the amount of European ancestry observed. p.R1441G is rare in Latin America despite the large genetic contribution made by settlers from Spain, where the mutation is relatively common.	Cognitive impairment is a common and disabling problem in Parkinson's disease (PD). Identification of genetic variants that influence the presence or severity of cognitive deficits in PD might provide a clearer understanding of the pathophysiology underlying this important nonmotor feature. We genotyped 1105 PD patients from the PD Cognitive Genetics Consortium for 249,336 variants using the NeuroX array. Participants underwent assessments of learning and memory (Hopkins Verbal Learning Test-Revised [HVLT-R]), working memory/executive function (Letter-Number Sequencing and Trail Making Test [TMT] A and B), language processing (semantic and phonemic verbal fluency), visuospatial abilities (Benton Judgment of Line Orientation [JoLO]), and global cognitive function (Montreal Cognitive Assessment). For common variants, we used linear regression to test for association between genotype and cognitive performance with adjustment for important covariates. Rare variants were analyzed using the optimal unified sequence kernel association test. The significance threshold was defined as a false discovery rate-corrected p-value (PFDR) of 0.05. Eighteen common variants in 13 genomic regions exceeded the significance threshold for one of the cognitive tests. These included GBA rs2230288 (E326K; PFDR = 2.7 × 10<sup>-4</sup>) for JoLO, PARP4 rs9318600 (PFDR = 0.006), and rs9581094 (PFDR = 0.006) for HVLT-R total recall, and MTCL1 rs34877994 (PFDR = 0.01) for TMT B-A. Analysis of rare variants did not yield any significant gene regions. We have conducted the first large-scale PD cognitive genetics analysis and nominated several new putative susceptibility genes for cognitive impairment in PD. These results will require replication in independent PD cohorts.	Frontotemporal lobar degeneration is a neuropathological disorder that causes a variety of clinical syndromes including frontotemporal dementia (FTD), progressive supranuclear palsy, and corticobasal syndrome (CBS). FTD associated with parkinsonism occurs frequently as a result of mutations in the C9orf72 gene and also in the genes coding for the protein associated with microtubule tau (MAPT) and progranulin (GRN) on chromosome 17 (FTDP-17). Herein, we report an Argentinean family, of Basque ancestry, with an extensive family history of behavioral variant of FTD. Twenty-one members over 6 generations composed the pedigree. An extensive neurologic and neurocognitive examination was performed on 2 symptomatic individuals and 3 nonsymptomatic individuals. Two different phenotypes were identified among affected members, CBS in the proband and FTD in his brother. DNA was extracted from blood for these 5 individuals and whole-exome sequencing was performed on 3 of them followed by Sanger sequencing of candidate genes on the other 2. In both affected individuals, a missense mutation (p.P301L; rs63751273) in exon 10 of the MAPT gene (chr17q21.3) was identified. Among MAPT mutations, p.P301L is the most frequently associated to different phenotypes: (1) aggressive, symmetrical, and early-onset Parkinsonism; (2) late parkinsonism associated with FTD; and (3) progressive supranuclear palsy but only exceptionally it is reported associated to CBS. This is the first report of the occurrence of the p.P301L-MAPT mutation in South America and supports the marked phenotypic heterogeneity among members of the same family as previously reported.	NA	Mutations in the LRRK2 gene result in autosomal dominant, late onset Parkinson's disease (PD). Three such mutations (p.R1441C, p.R1441G, and p.R1441H) are known to occur within codon 1441, and haplotype analyses indicate that each one has arisen independently on multiple occasions. We sequenced the entire coding region of 18 casual genes for PD or other parkinsonian neurodegenerative disorders in the proband of a family with autosomal dominant PD. We discovered a new missense mutation in the LRRK2 gene, c.4321C&gt;A (p.R1441S). The mutation was predicted to be highly deleterious in silico (Combined Annotation Dependent Depletion score of 25.5) and segregated with disease in the pedigree. The clinical characteristics of affected family members were similar to those described in PD families with other mutations in LRRK2 codon 1441 and included resting tremor, rigidity, bradykinesia, unilateral onset, and a good response to levodopa. Age at onset ranged from 41 to 76. Two of the affected members of the pedigree underwent detailed, longitudinal neuropsychological testing, and both displayed evidence of mild cognitive deficits at or slightly preceding the onset of motor symptoms. LRRK2 p.R1441S represents the fourth pathogenic mutation observed within codon 1441 and its discovery adds to the remarkable complexity of a mutational hotspot within the ROC domain of the LRRK2 protein. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.	To identify the causal gene in a multi-incident U.S. kindred with Parkinson's disease (PD). We characterized a family with a classical PD phenotype in which 7 individuals (5 males and 2 females) were affected with a mean age at onset of 46.1 years (range, 29-57 years). We performed whole exome sequencing on 4 affected and 1 unaffected family members. Sanger-sequencing was then used to verify and genotype all candidate variants in the remainder of the pedigree. Cultured cells transfected with wild-type or mutant constructs were used to characterize proteins of interest. We identified a missense mutation (c.574G &gt; A; p.G192R) in the RAB39B gene that closely segregated with disease and exhibited X-linked dominant inheritance with reduced penetrance in females. The mutation occurred in a highly conserved amino acid residue and was not observed among 87,725 X chromosomes in the Exome Aggregation Consortium dataset. Sequencing of the RAB39B coding region in 587 familial PD cases yielded two additional mutations (c.428C &gt; G [p.A143G] and c.624_626delGAG [p.R209del]) that were predicted to be deleterious in silico but occurred in families that were not sufficiently informative to assess segregation with disease. Experiments in PC12 and SK-N-BE(2)C cells demonstrated that p.G192R resulted in mislocalization of the mutant protein, possibly by altering the structure of the hypervariable C-terminal domain which mediates intracellular targeting. Our findings implicate RAB39B, an essential regulator of vesicular-trafficking, in clinically typical PD. Further characterization of normal and aberrant RAB39B function might elucidate important mechanisms underlying neurodegeneration in PD and related disorders.	Loss-of-function mutations in the GBA gene are associated with more severe cognitive impairment in PD, but the nature of these deficits is not well understood and whether common GBA polymorphisms influence cognitive performance in PD is not yet known. We screened the GBA coding region for mutations and the E326K polymorphism in 1,369 PD patients enrolled at eight sites from the PD Cognitive Genetics Consortium. Participants underwent assessments of learning and memory (Hopkins Verbal Learning Test-Revised), working memory/executive function (Letter-Number Sequencing Test and Trail Making Test A and B), language processing (semantic and phonemic verbal fluency), visuospatial abilities (Benton Judgment of Line Orientation), and global cognitive function (MoCA). We used linear regression to test for association between genotype and cognitive performance with adjustment for important covariates and accounted for multiple testing using Bonferroni's corrections. Mutation carriers (n = 60; 4.4%) and E326K carriers (n = 65; 4.7%) had a higher prevalence of dementia (mutations, odds ratio = 5.1; P = 9.7 × 10(-6) ; E326K, odds ratio = 6.4; P = 5.7 × 10(-7) ) and lower performance on Letter-Number Sequencing (mutations, corrected P[Pc ] = 9.0 × 10(-4) ; E326K, Pc = 0.036), Trail Making B-A (mutations, Pc = 0.018; E326K, Pc = 0.018), and Benton Judgment of Line Orientation (mutations, Pc = 0.0045; E326K, Pc = 0.0013). Both GBA mutations and E326K are associated with a distinct cognitive profile characterized by greater impairment in working memory/executive function and visuospatial abilities in PD patients. The discovery that E326K negatively impacts cognitive performance approximately doubles the proportion of PD patients we now recognize are at risk for more severe GBA-related cognitive deficits.
Matsuoka, Ryota	Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences	29438257	28855341	27852438	23646199	22593055	21835343	21270798	30449506	24179230	NA	Zebrafish has provided a powerful platform to study vascular biology over the past 25 years, owing to their distinct advantages for imaging and genetic manipulation. In this review, we summarize recent progress in vascular biology with particular emphasis on vascular development in zebrafish. The advent of transcription activator-like effector nuclease and clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)/CRISPR-associated protein 9 genome-editing technologies has dramatically facilitated reverse genetic approaches in zebrafish, as in other models. Here, we highlight recent studies on vascular development in zebrafish which mainly employed forward or reverse genetics combined with high-resolution imaging. These studies have advanced our understanding of diverse areas in vascular biology, including transcriptional regulation of endothelial cell differentiation, endothelial cell signaling during angiogenesis and lymphangiogenesis, vascular bed-specific developmental mechanisms, and perivascular cell recruitment. The unique attributes of the zebrafish model have allowed critical cellular and molecular insights into fundamental mechanisms of vascular development. Knowledge acquired through recent zebrafish work further advances our understanding of basic mechanisms underlying vascular morphogenesis, maintenance, and homeostasis. Ultimately, insights provided by the zebrafish model will help to understand the genetic, cellular, and molecular underpinnings of human vascular malformations and diseases.	Organ growth requires the coordinated invasion and expansion of blood vessel networks directed by tissue-resident cells and morphogenetic cues. A striking example of this intercellular communication is the vascularization of the central nervous system (CNS), which is driven by neuronal progenitors, including neuroepithelial cells and radial glia. Although the importance of neuronal progenitors in vascular development within the CNS is well recognized, how these progenitors regulate the vasculature outside the CNS remains largely unknown. Here we show that CNS-resident radial glia direct the vascularization of neighboring tissues during development. We find that genetic ablation of radial glia in zebrafish larvae leads to a complete loss of the bilateral vertebral arteries (VTAs) that extend along the ventrolateral sides of the spinal cord. Importantly, VTA formation is not affected by ablation of other CNS cell types, and radial glia ablation also compromises the subsequent formation of the peri-neural vascular plexus (PNVP), a vascular network that surrounds the CNS and is critical for CNS angiogenesis. Mechanistically, we find that radial glia control these processes via Vegfab/Vegfr2 signaling: vegfab is expressed by radial glia, and genetic or pharmacological inhibition of Vegfab/Vegfr2 signaling blocks the formation of the VTAs and subsequently of the PNVP. Moreover, mosaic overexpression of Vegfab in radial glia is sufficient to partially rescue the VTA formation defect in vegfab mutants. Thus, our findings identify a critical function for CNS-resident progenitors in the regulation of vascularization outside the CNS, serving as a paradigm for cross-tissue coordination of vascular morphogenesis and growth.	Vascular networks surrounding individual organs are important for their development, maintenance, and function; however, how these networks are assembled remains poorly understood. Here we show that CNS progenitors, referred to as radial glia, modulate vascular patterning around the spinal cord by acting as negative regulators. We found that radial glia ablation in zebrafish embryos leads to excessive sprouting of the trunk vessels around the spinal cord, and exclusively those of venous identity. Mechanistically, we determined that radial glia control this process via the Vegf decoy receptor sFlt1: sflt1 mutants exhibit the venous over-sprouting observed in radial glia-ablated larvae, and sFlt1 overexpression rescues it. Genetic mosaic analyses show that sFlt1 function in trunk endothelial cells can limit their over-sprouting. Together, our findings identify CNS-resident progenitors as critical angiogenic regulators that determine the precise patterning of the vasculature around the spinal cord, providing novel insights into vascular network formation around developing organs.	In the vertebrate retina, the formation of neural circuits within discrete laminae is critical for the establishment of retinal visual function. Precise formation of retinal circuits requires the coordinated actions of adhesive and repulsive molecules, including repulsive transmembrane semaphorins (Sema6A, Sema5A, and Sema5B). These semaphorins signal through different Plexin A (PlexA) receptors, thereby regulating distinct aspects of retinal circuit assembly. Here, we investigate the physiological roles of three Class 6 transmembrane semaphorins (Sema6B, Sema6C, and Sema6D), previously identified as PlexA receptor ligands in non-retinal tissues, in mammalian retinal development. We performed expression analysis and also phenotypic analyses of mice that carry null mutations in each of genes encoding these proteins using a broad range of inner and outer retinal markers. We find that these Class 6 semaphorins are uniquely expressed throughout postnatal retinal development in specific domains and cell types of the developing retina. However, we do not observe defects in stereotypical lamina-specific neurite stratification of retinal neuron subtypes in Sema6B-/- or Sema6C-/-; Sema6D-/- retinas. These findings indicate these Class 6 transmembrane semaphorins are unlikely to serve as major PlexA receptor ligands for the assembly of murine retinal circuit laminar organization.	In the vertebrate retina, neuronal circuitry required for visual perception is organized within specific laminae. Photoreceptors convey external visual information to bipolar and horizontal cells at triad ribbon synapses established within the outer plexiform layer (OPL), initiating retinal visual processing. However, the molecular mechanisms that organize these three classes of neuronal processes within the OPL, thereby ensuring appropriate ribbon synapse formation, remain largely unknown. Here we show that mice with null mutations in Sema6A or PlexinA4 (PlexA4) exhibit a pronounced defect in OPL stratification of horizontal cell axons without any apparent deficits in bipolar cell dendrite or photoreceptor axon targeting. Furthermore, these mutant horizontal cells exhibit aberrant dendritic arborization and reduced dendritic self-avoidance within the OPL. Ultrastructural analysis shows that the horizontal cell contribution to rod ribbon synapse formation in PlexA4⁻/⁻ retinas is disrupted. These findings define molecular components required for outer retina lamination and ribbon synapse formation.	In the vertebrate retina, neurites from distinct neuronal cell types are constrained within the plexiform layers, allowing for establishment of retinal lamination. However, the mechanisms by which retinal neurites are segregated within the inner or outer plexiform layers are not known. We find that the transmembrane semaphorins Sema5A and Sema5B constrain neurites from multiple retinal neuron subtypes within the inner plexiform layer (IPL). In Sema5A⁻/⁻; Sema5B⁻/⁻ mice, retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) and amacrine and bipolar cells exhibit severe defects leading to neurite mistargeting into the outer portions of the retina. These targeting abnormalities are more prominent in the outer (OFF) layers of the IPL and result in functional defects in select RGC response properties. Sema5A and Sema5B inhibit retinal neurite outgrowth through PlexinA1 and PlexinA3 receptors both in vitro and in vivo. These findings define a set of ligands and receptors required for the establishment of inner retinal lamination and function.	In the vertebrate retina, establishment of precise synaptic connections among distinct retinal neuron cell types is critical for processing visual information and for accurate visual perception. Retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), amacrine cells and bipolar cells establish stereotypic neurite arborization patterns to form functional neural circuits in the inner plexiform layer (IPL), a laminar region that is conventionally divided into five major parallel sublaminae. However, the molecular mechanisms governing distinct retinal subtype targeting to specific sublaminae within the IPL remain to be elucidated. Here we show that the transmembrane semaphorin Sema6A signals through its receptor PlexinA4 (PlexA4) to control lamina-specific neuronal stratification in the mouse retina. Expression analyses demonstrate that Sema6A and PlexA4 proteins are expressed in a complementary fashion in the developing retina: Sema6A in most ON sublaminae and PlexA4 in OFF sublaminae of the IPL. Mice with null mutations in PlexA4 or Sema6A exhibit severe defects in stereotypic lamina-specific neurite arborization of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-expressing dopaminergic amacrine cells, intrinsically photosensitive RGCs (ipRGCs) and calbindin-positive cells in the IPL. Sema6A and PlexA4 genetically interact in vivo for the regulation of dopaminergic amacrine cell laminar targeting. Therefore, neuronal targeting to subdivisions of the IPL in the mammalian retina is directed by repulsive transmembrane guidance cues present on neuronal processes.	The hypothalamo-neurohypophyseal system (HNS) regulates homeostasis through the passage of neurohormones and blood-borne proteins via permeable blood capillaries that lack the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Why neurohypophyseal capillaries become permeable while the neighboring vasculature of the brain forms BBB remains unclear. We show that pituicytes, the resident astroglial cells of the neurohypophysis, express genes that are associated with BBB breakdown during neuroinflammation. Pituicyte-enriched factors provide a local microenvironment that instructs a permeable neurovascular conduit. Thus, genetic and pharmacological perturbations of Vegfa and Tgfβ3 affected HNS vascular morphogenesis and permeability and impaired the expression of the fenestral marker plvap. The anti-inflammatory agent dexamethasone decreased HNS permeability and downregulated the pituicyte-specific cyp26b gene, encoding a retinoic acid catabolic enzyme. Inhibition of Cyp26b activity led to upregulation of tight junction protein Claudin-5 and decreased permeability. We conclude that pituicyte-derived factors regulate the &quot;decision&quot; of endothelial cells to adopt a permeable endothelial fate instead of forming a BBB.	Direction-selective responses to motion can be to the onset (On) or cessation (Off) of illumination. Here, we show that the transmembrane protein semaphorin 6A and its receptor plexin A2 are critical for achieving radially symmetric arborization of On starburst amacrine cell (SAC) dendrites and normal SAC stratification in the mouse retina. Plexin A2 is expressed in both On and Off SACs; however, semaphorin 6A is expressed in On SACs. Specific On-Off bistratified direction-selective ganglion cells in semaphorin 6A(-/-) mutants exhibit decreased tuning of On directional motion responses. These results correlate the elaboration of symmetric SAC dendritic morphology and asymmetric responses to motion, shedding light on the development of visual pathways that use the same cell types for divergent outputs. 	NA
Maytin, Edward	Biomedical Engineering	30740528	29593028	29471147	28336806	26964566	26448756	26223149	25983370	25712788	25402211	Breast cancer (BCA) in women is a leading cause of mortality and morbidity; distant metastases occur in ~40% of cases. Here, as an alternative to ionizing radiation therapy and chemotherapy and their associated side effects, we explored a new combination approach using capecitabine (CPBN) and aminolevulinate-based photodynamic therapy (PDT). We had previously developed a combination PDT approach in which 5-fluorouracil (5FU), a differentiation-promoting agent, increases the levels of protoporphyrin IX (PpIX) in cancer cells when given as a neoadjuvant prior to aminolevulinic acid (ALA). However, 5FU can be toxic when administered systemically at high levels. We reasoned that CPBN, a known chemotherapeutic for BCA and less toxic than 5FU (because CPBN is metabolized to 5FU specifically within tumor tissues), might work equally well as a PDT neoadjuvant. Murine 4T1 BCA cells harboring a luciferase transgene were injected into breast fat pads of female nude mice. CPBN (600 mg/kg/day) was administered by oral gavage for 3 days followed by intraperitoneal ALA administration and PDT with red light (633 nm) on day 4. Tumor growth and regression were monitored in vivo using bioluminescence imaging. Histological changes in primary tumors and metastases were assessed by immunohistochemistry after necropsy. CPBN pretreatment of 4T1 tumors increased cellular differentiation, reduced proliferation, raised PpIX levels, enhanced tumor cell death, and reduced metastatic spread of 4T1 cells post-PDT, relative to vehicle-only controls. The use of CPBN as a non-toxic PDT neoadjuvant for treatment of BCA represents a novel approach with significant potential for translation into the clinic.	Purpose: Actinic keratoses (AK) are precancerous lesions that can progress to squamous cell carcinoma. Photodynamic therapy (PDT) and topical 5-fluorouracil (5FU) are commonly used agents for AK. Empirical reports suggest that combining them can improve the therapeutic response. However, the optimal combined regimen was not clear in terms of proper sequence, timing, and mechanism. This clinical study explored mechanisms of action for neoadjuvantal 5FU and PDT for treatment of AK.Patients and Methods: A bilaterally controlled trial (17 patients) was performed. One side of the body (face, scalp, forearms) received 5FU pretreatment for 6 days, whereas the other side served as no-pretreatment control. Methylaminolevulinate cream was applied to both sides for 3 hours, and protoporphyrin IX (PpIX) levels were measured by noninvasive fluorimetry and skin biopsy. After red light illumination, lesion clearance was assessed at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months after PDT.Results: PpIX levels were increased 2- to 3-fold in 5FU-pretreated lesions versus controls. Altered expression of heme-synthetic enzymes (coproporphyrinogen oxidase and ferrochelatase) and induction of p53 were observed, probably accounting for increased PpIX and subsequent cancer cell death. Relative clearance rates after PDT with or without 5FU pretreatment were 75% versus 45% at 3 months, and 67% versus 39% at 6 months, respectively; these differences were statistically significant.Conclusions: Serial 5FU and PDT improve AK clearance by at least two mechanisms, enhanced photosensitizer accumulation and p53 induction. Because 5FU and PDT are FDA-approved modalities, the combined regimen can be readily employed in clinical practice to reduce AK burden and reduce SCC risk. Clin Cancer Res; 24(13); 3026-35. ©2018 AACR.	Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is a non-scarring alternative for treating basal cell carcinoma (BCC) in patients with Basal Cell Nevus Syndrome (BCNS), also known as Gorlin syndrome. In Europe, red light (635 nm) is the predominant source for PDT, whereas in the United States blue light (400 nm) is more widely available. The objective of this study was to conduct a head-to-head comparison of blue light and red light PDT in the same BCNS patients. In a pilot study of three patients with 141 BCC lesions, 5-aminolevulinate (20% solution) was applied to all tumors. After 4 h, half of the tumors were illuminated with blue light and the remainder with red light. To ensure safety while treating this many tumors simultaneously, light doses were escalated gradually. Six treatments were administered in three biweekly sessions over 4 months, with a final evaluation at 6 months. Tumor status was documented with high-resolution photographs. Persistent lesions were biopsied at 6 months. Clearance rates after blue light (98%) were slightly better than after red light (93%), with blue light shown to be statistically non-inferior to red light. Eight suspicious lesions were biopsied, 5 after red light (5/5 were BCC) and 3 after blue light (1 was BCC). Blue light PDT was reportedly less painful. Blue light and red light PDT appear to be equally safe and perhaps equally effective for treating BCC tumors in BCNS patients. Further studies to evaluate long-term clearance after blue light PDT are needed.	Photodynamic therapy (PDT), using 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA) to drive synthesis of protoporphryin IX (PpIX) is a promising, scar-free alternative to surgery for skin cancers, including squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) and SCC precursors called actinic keratoses. In the United States, PDT is only FDA approved for treatment of actinic keratoses; this narrow range of indications could be broadened if PDT efficacy were improved. Toward that goal, we developed a mechanism-based combination approach using 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) as a neoadjuvant for ALA-based PDT. In mouse models of SCC (orthotopic UV-induced lesions, and subcutaneous A431 and 4T1 tumors), pretreatment with 5-FU for 3 days followed by ALA for 4 hours led to large, tumor-selective increases in PpIX levels, and enhanced cell death upon illumination. Several mechanisms were identified that might explain the relatively improved therapeutic response. First, the expression of key enzymes in the heme synthesis pathway was altered, including upregulated coproporphyrinogen oxidase and downregulated ferrochelatase. Second, a 3- to 6-fold induction of p53 in 5-FU-pretreated tumors was noted. The fact that A431 contains a mutant form p53 did not prevent the development of a neoadjuvantal 5-FU effect. Furthermore, 5-FU pretreatment of 4T1 tumors (cells that completely lack p53), still led to significant beneficial inductions, that is, 2.5-fold for both PpIX and PDT-induced cell death. Thus, neoadjuvantal 5-FU combined with PDT represents a new therapeutic approach that appears useful even for p53-mutant and p53-null tumors. Mol Cancer Ther; 16(6); 1092-101. ©2017 AACR.	Dermatology is a field that strives not only to alleviate skin disease (therapeutics) but also to improve the perception of wellness (cosmetics). Thus, in this special issue of Glycobiology, it seems appropriate to discuss the biology of a glycosaminoglycan, called hyaluronic acid (hyaluronan, or HA), that has become the most popular agent today for intradermal injections to improve wrinkles and other cosmetic defects. HA is a simple linear polymer in which a simple disaccharide is repeated thousands of time, thereby creating a huge hydrophilic molecule that confers a large volume of hydration and contributes to the turgor and flexibility of healthy skin. Beyond cosmetic considerations, however, HA also has important biological and physiological functions that were largely under-appreciated until recently. New research has confirmed that HA is dynamically produced by most skin cells, not only fibroblasts (the cells that make most of the skin's extracellular matrix) but also by keratinocytes in the outer protective layer (epidermis). For both fibroblasts and keratinocytes, HA plays a regulatory role in controlling cell physiology through interaction of extracellular HA with a major cell-surface receptor, CD44. This interaction mediates intracellular signaling both directly and indirectly, through CD44 interactions with the cytoskeleton and with EGF and TGFβ receptors. Furthermore, degradation of HA by specific hyaluronidase enzymes produces HA fragments that can help to regulate inflammatory processes. In this review, current knowledge about the role of HA in skin inflammation and wound healing are reviewed and possible future applications of such knowledge discussed.	Ulcers and chronic wounds are a particularly common problem in diabetics and are associated with hyperglycemia. In this targeted review, we summarize evidence suggesting that defective wound healing in diabetics is causally linked, at least in part, to hyperglycemia-induced changes in the status of hyaluronan (HA) that resides in the pericellular coat (glycocalyx) of endothelial cells of small cutaneous blood vessels. Potential mechanisms through which exposure to high glucose levels causes a loss of the glycocalyx on the endothelium and accelerates the recruitment of leukocytes, creating a proinflammatory environment, are discussed in detail. Hyperglycemia also affects other cells in the immediate perivascular area, including pericytes and smooth muscle cells, through exposure to increased cytokine levels and through glucose elevations in the interstitial fluid. Possible roles of newly recognized, cross-linked forms of HA, and interactions of a major HA receptor (CD44) with cytokine/growth factor receptors during hyperglycemia, are also discussed. 	Better noninvasive techniques are needed to monitor protoporphyrin IX (PpIX) levels before and during photodynamic therapy (PDT) of squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the skin. Our aim was to evaluate (1) multispectral fluorescent imaging of ultraviolet light (UV)-induced cancer and precancer in a mouse model of SCC and (2) multispectral imaging and probe-based fluorescence detection as a tool to study vitamin D (VD) effects on aminolevulinic acid (ALA)-induced PpIX synthesis. Dorsal skin of hairless mice was imaged weekly during a 24-week UV carcinogenesis protocol. Hot spots of PpIX fluorescence were detectable by multispectral imaging beginning at 14 weeks of UV exposure. Many hot spots disappeared after cessation of UV at week 20, but others persisted or became visible after week 20, and corresponded to tumors that eventually became visible by eye. In SCC-bearing mice pretreated with topical VD before ALA application, our optical techniques confirmed that VD preconditioning induces a tumor-selective increase in PpIX levels. Fluorescence-based optical imaging of PpIX is a promising tool for detecting early SCC lesions of the skin. Pretreatment with VD can increase the ability to detect early tumors, providing a potential new way to improve efficacy of ALA-PDT. 	Non-melanoma skin cancers (NMSCs) such as basal cell carcinoma (BCC) and squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) are the most common form of human cancer worldwide, and their incidence is increasing. Photodynamic therapy (PDT), mediated by topically applied aminolevulinic acid (ALA) and subsequent exposure to light (either a laser or a noncoherent source), is being increasingly used for the treatment of dermatological disorders, including BCC and SCC. However, therapeutic responses of NMSCs to ALA-PDT are currently not superior to standard therapies, although the latter have undesirable side effects including scarring. In this study, we report that preconditioning of skin tumors with calcitriol (active form of Vitamin D; Vit D) prior to ALA-PDT, significantly improves the treatment outcome. In BCC and UVB-induced SCC mouse models, we identified an increase in tumor-specific accumulation of ALA induced photosensitizer (protoporphyrin IX, PpIX) due to Vit D preconditioning, of up to 6-fold in vivo. In addition, increased expression of differentiation (145 fold, p &lt; 0.02) and proliferation (42 fold, p &lt; 0.005) markers were identified in BCC tumors, all leading to increased tumor destruction (18.3 fold, p &lt; 0.03) with the combination approach, as compared to ALA-PDT alone. Histomorphological changes identified using hematoxylin and eosin staining, and results of TUNEL staining, together documented a beneficial effect of Vit D pretreatment upon tumor cell death. We conclude that this new combination approach with Vit D and ALA-PDT has great potential to achieve complete remission of NMSC tumors, with excellent cosmetic results and an overall beneficial impact upon patient care.	Cutaneous metastasis occurs more frequently in breast cancer than in any other malignancy in women, causing significant morbidity. Photodynamic therapy (PDT), which combines a porphyrin-based photosensitizer and activation by light, can be employed for breast cancer (especially cutaneous metastases) but tumor control after PDT has not surpassed traditional treatments methods such as surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy up to now. Here, we report that breast cancer nodules in mice can be effectively treated by preconditioning the tumors with 1α, 25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (calcitriol; Vit D) prior to administering 5-aminolevulinate (ALA)-based PDT. Breast carcinoma tumors (MDA-MB-231 cells implanted subcutaneously in nude mice) received systemic Vit D (1 μg/kg) for 3 days prior to receiving ALA. The addition of Vit D increased intratumoral accumulation of protoporphyrin IX (PpIX) by 3.3 ± 0.5-fold, relative to mice receiving ALA alone. Bioluminescence imaging in vivo and immunohistochemical staining confirmed that tumor-specific cell death after ALA-PDT was markedly enhanced (36.8 ± 7.4-fold increase in TUNEL-positive nuclei; radiance decreased to 14% of control) in Vit D pretreated tumors as compared to vehicle-pretreated tumors. Vit D stimulated proliferation (10.7 ± 2.8-fold) and differentiation (9.62 ± 1.7-fold) in tumor cells, underlying an augmented cellular sensitivity to ALA-PDT. The observed enhancement of tumor responses to ALA-PDT after low, nontoxic doses of Vit D supports a new combination approach that deserves consideration in the clinical setting, and offers potential for improved remission of cutaneous breast cancer metastases.	The CCAAT/Enhancer Binding Proteins (C/EBPs) are a family of leucine-zipper transcription factors that regulate physiological processes such as energy metabolism, inflammation, cell cycle, and the development and differentiation of several tissues including skin. Recently, a role for C/EBPs in tumor cell proliferation and differentiation has been proposed, but the incomplete characterization in the literature of multiple translational isoforms of these proteins has made interpretation of these roles difficult. Therefore, we have carefully reexamined C/EBP isoform expression in human non-melanoma skin cancers. C/EBPα, C/EBPβ, and C/EBPδ were analyzed histologically in squamous cell carcinomas (SCC). The individual isoforms of C/EBPα and C/EBPβ were examined by immunofluorescent digital imaging, western blotting and DNA binding activity (electrophoretic mobility shift analysis). Expression of all C/EBP family proteins was decreased in SCC tumors. Suppression was greatest for C/EBPα, less for C/EBPβ, and least for C/EBPδ. Western analyses confirmed that C/EBPα p42 and p30 isoforms were decreased. For C/EBPβ, only the abundant full-length isoform (C/EBPβ-1, LAP*, 55 kD) was reduced, whereas the smaller isoforms, C/EBPβ-2 (LAP, 48 kD) and C/EBPβ-3 (LIP, 20 kD), which are predominantly nuclear, were significantly increased in well- and moderately-differentiated SCC (up to 14-fold for C/EBPβ-3). These elevations correlated with increases in PCNA, a marker of proliferation. Although C/EBPβ displayed increased post-translational modifications in SCC, phosphorylation of C/EBPβ-1 (Thr 235) was not altered. C/EBP-specific DNA binding activity in nuclear and whole-cell extracts of cultured cells and tumors was predominantly attributable to C/EBPβ. In summary, two short C/EBPβ isoforms, C/EBPβ-2 and C/EBPβ-3, represent strong candidate markers for epithelial skin malignancy, due to their preferential expression in carcinoma versus normal skin, and their strong correlation with tumor proliferation. 
McCrae, Keith	Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences	30923524	29295846	28784423	28711993	28476065	28314138	28113083	27402674	26637701	26264622	The antiphospholipid syndrome (APS) is characterized by thrombosis and pregnancy morbidity in the presence of antiphospholipid antibodies (aPL). Complement is a system of enzymes and regulatory proteins of the innate immune system that plays a key role in the inflammatory response to pathogenic stimuli. The complement and coagulation pathways are closely linked, and expanding data indicate that complement may be activated in patients with aPL and function as a cofactor in the pathogenesis of aPL-associated clinical events. Complement activation by aPL generates C5a, which induces neutrophil tissue factor-dependent procoagulant activity. Beta-2-glycoprotein I, the primary antigen for pathogenic aPL, has complement regulatory effects in vitro. Moreover, aPL induce fetal loss in wild-type mice but not in mice deficient in specific complement components (C3, C5). Antiphospholipid antibodies also induce thrombosis in wild type mice and this effect is attenuated in C3 or C6 deficient mice, or in the presence of a C5 inhibitor. Increased levels of complement activation products have been demonstrated in sera of patients with aPL, though the association with clinical events remains unclear. Eculizumab, a terminal complement inhibitor, has successfully been used to treat catastrophic APS and prevent APS-related thrombotic microangiopathy in the setting of renal transplant. However, the mechanisms of complement activation in APS, its role in the pathogenesis of aPL related complications in humans, and the potential of complement inhibition as a therapeutic target in APS require further study.	Splenectomy is an effective therapy for steroid-refractory or dependent immune thrombocytopenia (ITP). With the advent of medical alternatives such as rituximab and thrombopoietin receptor antagonists, the use of splenectomy has declined and is generally reserved for patients that fail multiple medical therapies. Splenectomy removes the primary site of platelet clearance and autoantibody production and offers the highest rate of durable response (50% to 70%) compared with other ITP therapies. However, there are no reliable predictors of splenectomy response, and long-term risks of infection and cardiovascular complications must be considered. Because the long-term efficacy of different second-line medical therapies for ITP have not been directly compared, treatment decisions must be made without supportive evidence. Splenectomy continues to be a reasonable treatment option for many patients, including those with an active lifestyle who desire freedom from medication and monitoring, and patients with fulminant ITP that does not respond well to medical therapy. We try to avoid splenectomy within the first 12 months after ITP diagnosis for most patients to allow for spontaneous or therapy-induced remissions, particularly in older patients who have increased surgical morbidity and lower rates of response, and in young children. Treatment decisions must be individualized based on patients' comorbidities, lifestyles, and preferences. Future research should focus on comparing long-term outcomes of patients treated with different second-line therapies and on developing personalized medicine approaches to identify subsets of patients most likely to respond to splenectomy or other therapeutic approaches.	Antiphospholipid syndrome (APS) is characterized by thrombosis and/or pregnancy complications in the presence of persistent antiphospholipid antibodies (APLA). Laboratory diagnosis of APLA depends upon the detection of a lupus anticoagulant, which prolongs phospholipid-dependent anticoagulation tests, and/or anticardiolipin (aCL) and anti-β2-glycoprotein-1 (β2GPI) antibodies. APLA are primarily directed toward phospholipid binding proteins. Pathophysiologic mechanisms underlying thrombosis and pregnancy loss in APS include APLA induced cellular activation, inhibition of natural anticoagulant and fibrinolytic systems, and complement activation, among others. There is a high rate of recurrent thrombosis in APS, especially in triple positive patients (patients with lupus anticoagulant, aCL and anti-β2GPI antibodies), and indefinite anticoagulation with a vitamin K antagonist is the standard of care for thrombotic APS. There is currently insufficient evidence to recommend the routine use of direct oral anticoagulants (DOAC) in thrombotic APS. Aspirin with low molecular weight or unfractionated heparin may reduce the incidence of pregnancy loss in obstetric APS. Recent insights into the pathogenesis of APS have led to the identification of new potential therapeutic interventions, including anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory therapies. Additional research is needed to better understand the effects of APLA on activation of signaling pathways in vascular cells, to identify more predictive biomarkers that define patients at greatest risk for a first or recurrent APLA-related clinical event, and to determine the safety and efficacy of DOACs and novel anti-inflammatory and immune-modulatory therapies for refractory APS.	Laboratory criteria for the classification of antiphospholipid syndrome include the detection of a lupus anticoagulant and/or anticardiolipin and anti-β2-glycoprotein I antibodies. However, the majority of patients who test positive in these assays do not have thrombosis. Current risk-stratification tools are largely limited to the antiphospholipid antibody profile and traditional thrombotic risk factors. Novel biomarkers that correlate with disease activity and potentially provide insight into future clinical events include domain 1 specific anti-β2GPI antibodies, antibodies to other phospholipids or phospholipid/protein antigens (such as anti-PS/PT), and functional/biological assays such as thrombin generation, complement activation, levels of circulating microparticles, and annexin A5 resistance. Clinical risk scores may also have value in predicting clinical events. Biomarkers that predict thrombosis risk in patients with antiphospholipid antibodies have been long sought, and several biomarkers have been proposed. Ultimately, integration of biomarkers with established assays and clinical characteristics may offer the best chance of identifying patients at highest risk of APS-related complications.	Antiphospholipid antibodies (aPL), particularly those directed against β2-glycoprotein I, cause activation of vascular cells (endothelial cells, platelets, monocytes) and release of extracellular vesicles (EVs), which include exosomes and microparticles (MPs). MPs, particularly endothelial MPs, have been most extensively studied in antiphospholipid syndrome (APS). Compared with healthy controls, patients with aPL have significantly higher levels of circulating endothelial and platelet MPs, including MPs expressing immunological and functional tissue factor. Although a consistent relationship of EVs with APS-related thrombosis and obstetric events has not yet been demonstrated, elevated levels of MPs occurring remote from thrombotic events suggest a chronic state of vascular activation in APS. In addition to being a marker of cellular activation, EVs express bioactive lipids, proteins, and nucleic acids, particularly microribonucleic acid (microRNA). EVs may potentially play a pathogenic role in APS by stimulating thrombosis through tissue factor-dependent and independent mechanisms and by promoting vascular activation. Further research is needed to understand these mechanisms and to determine whether EVs may be a useful biomarker to identify patients with aPL at highest risk of clinical events.	Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT) is characterized by frequent severe bleeding, particularly epistaxis, and life-threatening complications including stroke, brain abscess and heart failure. The psychological impact of HHT is not known. We conducted this cross sectional study to determine the prevalence of depression and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) related to HHT. A survey tool comprising demographic and clinical information and two validated self-administered questionnaires, the PTSD checklist for DSM-5 (PCL-5) and Beck Depression Inventory-II (BDI-II), was distributed to individuals with HHT. Associations with clinical and demographic variables with depression and PTSD were evaluated in a logistic regression model. A total of 222 individuals responded to the survey. Of these, 185 completed either the BDI II or PCL-5 and were included in the analysis. Median age was 54years and 142 (76.8%) were female. An existing diagnosis of depression, anxiety disorder and PTSD was present in 81 (43.8%), 59 (31.9%) and 16(8.6%) respondents, respectively. BDI-II scores&gt;13 indicating at least mild depressive symptoms were present in 142 (88.7%) patients and 52 (28.1%) patients had a positive screen for PTSD (PCL-5 score≥38). On multivariable analysis, depression [OR 2.17 (95% CI 1.045-4.489), p=0.038], anxiety disorder [OR 2.232 (95% CI 1.066-4.676), p=0.033], and being unemployed [OR 2.234 (95% CI 1.46-4.714), p=0.019) were associated with PTSD. We report a high prevalence of depressive and PTSD symptoms in individuals with HHT. While selection bias may lead to overestimation of prevalence in this study, our results are concerning and clinicians should remain vigilant for signs of psychological distress and consider screening for these disorders.	Survivors of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) have high rates of chronic morbidities including neurocognitive complications and depression. There is limited information regarding the psychological consequences of TTP. We conducted this cross sectional study to estimate the prevalence of symptoms of PTSD and depression in survivors of TTP. An online survey tool comprising demographic and clinical information and two validated self-administered questionnaires, the PTSD checklist for DSM-5 (PCL-5) and Beck Depression Inventory-II (BDI-II), was distributed to individuals with TTP. Multivariable regression was used to identify clinical and demographic associations of depression and PTSD. A total of 236 individuals completed either the BDI II or PCL-5 and were included in the analysis. Median age was 44years and 87.3% were female. Median time from diagnosis was 80months. BDI-II scores &gt;13 indicating at least mild depressive symptoms were present in 80.8% individuals (15.8%, 28.2%, and 36.8% with mild, moderate and severe symptoms, respectively) and 35.1% had a positive screen for PTSD (PCL-5 score≥38). A previous diagnosis of depression [OR 3.65 (95% CI 1.26-10.57); p=0.017] and unemployment attributed to TTP [OR 5.86 (95% CI 1.26-27.09); p=0.024] were associated with depression. Younger age (p=0.017), a pre-existing anxiety disorder [OR 3.57 (95% CI 1.76-7.25), p&lt;0.001], and unemployment attributable to TTP [OR 6.42 (95% CI 2.75-415.00), p&lt;0.001] were associated with PTSD. We report a high prevalence of PTSD and depression in TTP survivors. These results are concerning and indicate a need for further investigation to better define this association and its consequences.	Previous studies have demonstrated that cleaved high-molecular-weight kininogen (HKa) induces endothelial apoptosis and inhibits angiogenesis and have suggested that this occurs through inhibition of Src family kinases. This study assessed the role of tyrosine-protein kinase Lck (p56/Lck) in this pathway. We analyzed early events leading to apoptosis of human endothelial cells exposed to HKa. The role of p56/Lck was investigated using short interfering (si) RNA knockdown and lentivirus expression in assays of endothelial tube formation, sprouting of neovessels from murine aorta, and angiogenesis in Matrigel plugs. HKa stimulated expression and phosphorylation of p56/Lck. siRNA knockdown of p56/Lck promoted endothelial proliferation and blocked HKa-induced apoptosis and activation of p53, Bax, and Bak. Lentivirus expression of p56/Lck in endothelial cells induced apoptosis and blocked tube formation. Expression of p56/Lck in murine aortic rings blocked sprouting angiogenesis. Lentivirus expressing p56/Lck blocked angiogenesis in Matrigel plugs, while p56/Lck short hairpin RNA inhibited the antiangiogenic effect of HKa. Scrambled siRNAs and empty lentiviral vectors were used in all experiments. Apoptosis of proliferating endothelial cells and inhibition of angiogenesis by HKa requires p56/Lck. This suggests a novel role for p56/Lck in regulation of endothelial cell survival and angiogenesis.-Betapudi, V., Shukla, M., Alluri, R., Merkulov, S., McCrae, K. R. Novel role for p56/Lck in regulation of endothelial cell survival and angiogenesis.	Antiphospholipid syndrome (APS) is defined by clinical manifestations that include thrombosis and/or fetal loss or pregnancy morbidity in patients with antiphospholipid antibodies (aPL). Antiphospholipid antibodies are among the most common causes of acquired thrombophilia, but unlike most of the genetic thrombophilias are associated with both venous and arterial thrombosis. Despite an abundance of clinical and basic research on aPL, a unified mechanism that explains their prothrombotic activity has not been defined; this may reflect the heterogeneity of aPL and/or the fact that they may influence multiple pro- and/or antithrombotic pathways. Antiphospholipid antibodies are directed primarily toward phospholipid binding proteins rather than phospholipid per se, with the most common antigenic target being β2-glycoprotein 1 (β2GPI) although antibodies against other targets such as prothrombin are well described. Laboratory diagnosis of aPL depends upon the detection of a lupus anticoagulant (LA), which prolongs phospholipid-dependent anticoagulation tests, and/or anticardiolipin and anti-β2-glycoprotein 1 antibodies. Indefinite anticoagulation remains the mainstay of therapy for thrombotic APS, although new strategies that may improve outcomes are emerging. Preliminary reports suggest caution in the use of direct oral anticoagulants in patients with APS-associated thrombosis. Based on somewhat limited evidence, aspirin and low molecular weight heparin are recommended for obstetrical APS. There remains a pressing need for better understanding of the pathogenesis of APS in humans, for identification of clinical and laboratory parameters that define patients at greatest risk for APS-related events, and for targeted treatment of this common yet enigmatic disorder. 	Elevated levels of endothelial cell (EC)-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) circulate in patients with antiphospholipid antibodies (APLAs), and APLAs, particularly those against β2 -glycoprotein I (β2 GPI), stimulate EV release from ECs. However, the effects of EC-derived EVs have not been characterized. To determine the mechanism by which EVs released from ECs by anti-β2 GPI antibodies activate unstimulated ECs. We used interleukin (IL)-1 receptor inhibitors, small interfering RNA (siRNA) against Toll-like receptors (TLRs) and microRNA (miRNA) profiling to assess the mechanism(s) by which EVs released from ECs exposed to anti-β2 GPI antibodies activated unstimulated ECs. Anti-β2 GPI antibodies caused formation of an EC inflammasome and the release of EVs that were enriched in mature IL-1β, had a distinct miRNA profile, and caused endothelial activation. However, activation was not inhibited by an IL-1β antibody, an IL-1 receptor antagonist, or IL-1 receptor siRNA. EC activation by EVs required IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 4 phosphorylation, and was inhibited by pretreatment of cells with TLR7 siRNA or RNase A, which degrades ssRNA. Profiling of miRNA in EVs released from ECs incubated with β2 GPI and either control IgG or anti-β2 GPI antibodies revealed numerous differences in the content of specific miRNAs, including a significant decrease in mIR126. These observations demonstrate that, although anti-β2 GPI-derived endothelial EVs contain IL-1β, they activate unstimulated ECs through a TLR7-dependent and ssRNA-dependent pathway. Alterations in miRNA content may contribute to the ability of EVs derived from ECs exposed to anti-β2 GPI antibodies to activate unstimulated ECs in an autocrine or paracrine manner.
McDonald, Christine	Inflammation and Immunity	30704299	29880914	29471675	26982478	25581832	25000398	23251695	22665475	22387394	21936032	The studies reviewed in this article combine diet in the context of disease progression or treatment with analysis of the microbiome. First, we present findings on how diet manipulation impacts the microbiome and disease pathogenesis in a broad variety of rodent models of disease. Then, we describe results from clinical trials that are using diet therapies to attempt to shift the microbiome and treat disease symptoms. Finally, we discuss what these studies have taught us about the influence of the microbiome of disease and health states and highlight the evidence suggesting that dietary modulation of the microbiome is an emerging therapeutic option for a variety of different diseases.	Multidrug-resistant bacterial strains are a rapidly emerging healthcare threat; therefore it is critical to develop new therapies to combat these organisms. Prior antibacterial strategies directly target pathogen growth or viability. Host-directed strategies to increase antimicrobial defenses may be an effective alternative to antibiotics and reduce development of resistant strains. In this study, we demonstrated the efficacy of a pyrimidine synthesis inhibitor, N-phosphonacetyl-L-aspartate (PALA), to enhance clearance of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Acinetobacter baumannii strains by primary human dermal fibroblasts in vitro. PALA did not have a direct bactericidal effect, but enhanced cellular secretion of the antimicrobial peptides human β-defensin 2 (HBD2) and HBD3 from fibroblasts. When tested in porcine and human skin explant models, a topical PALA formulation was efficacious to enhance MRSA, P. aeruginosa, and A. baumannii clearance. Topical PALA treatment of human skin explants also resulted in increased HBD2 and cathelicidin (LL-37) production. The antimicrobial actions of PALA required expression of nucleotide-binding, oligomerization domain 2 (NOD2), receptor-interacting serine/threonine-protein kinase 2 (RIP2), and carbamoyl phosphatase synthase II/aspartate transcarbamylase/dihydroorotase (CAD). Our results indicate that PALA may be a new option to combat multidrug-resistant bacterial infections of the skin through enhancement of an integral pathway of the cutaneous innate immune defense system.	Yao syndrome (YAOS) is a systemic autoinflammatory disease (SAID), formerly termed nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-2 (NOD2)-associated autoinflammatory disease. Due to the recent identification of YAOS, the molecular mechanisms underlying its disease pathogenesis are unclear. With specific NOD2 variants as characteristic genotypic features of YAOS, our study examined NOD2 expression, transcript splicing, signaling pathway activation, and cytokine profiles in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from 10 YAOS patients and six healthy individuals. All participants were genotyped for NOD2 variants; all YAOS patients were heterozygous for the NOD2 IVS8<sup>+158</sup> variant (IVS8<sup>+158</sup>) and four patients also carried a concurrent NOD2 R702W variant (IVS8<sup>+158</sup>/R702W haplotype). Resembling other SAIDs, plasma levels of TNFα, IL-1β, IL-6, IFNγ, and S100A12 were unaltered in YAOS patients. Intron-8 splicing of NOD2 transcripts was unaffected by carriage of NOD2 IVS8<sup>+158</sup>. However, NOD2 transcript level and basal p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activity were significantly elevated in PBMCs from IVS8<sup>+158</sup> YAOS patients. Moreover, these patients' cells had elevated basal IL-6 secretion that was enhanced by muramyl dipeptide (MDP) stimulation. Tocilizumab treatment of a YAOS IVS8<sup>+158</sup> patient resulted in marked clinical improvement. In contrast, MDP-stimulated NF-κB activity was uniquely suppressed in haplotype IVS8<sup>+158</sup>/R702W patients, as was TNFα secretion. Our study demonstrates for the first time that NOD2 expression and pathway activation are aberrant in YAOS, and specific NOD2 genotypes result in distinct NOD2 expression and cytokine profiles. These findings may also help select therapeutic strategies in the future.	Autophagy is a cellular stress response that plays key roles in physiological processes, such as adaptation to starvation, degradation of aberrant proteins or organelles, anti-microbial defense, protein secretion, and innate and adaptive immunity. Dysfunctional autophagy is recognized as a contributing factor in many chronic inflammatory diseases, including inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Genetic studies have identified multiple IBD-associated risk loci that include genes required for autophagy, and several lines of evidence demonstrate that autophagy is impaired in IBD patients. How dysfunctional autophagy contributes to IBD onset is currently under investigation by researchers. Dysfunctional autophagy has been identified to play a role in IBD pathogenesis by altering processes that include (1) intracellular bacterial killing, (2) anti-microbial peptide secretion by Paneth cells, (3) pro-inflammatory cytokine production by macrophages, (4) antigen presentation by dendritic cells, (5) goblet cell function, and (6) the endoplasmic reticulum stress response in enterocytes. The overall effect of dysregulation of these processes varies by cell type, stimulus, as well as cellular context. Manipulation of the autophagic pathway may provide a new avenue in the search for effective therapies for IBD. Autophagy plays multiple roles in IBD pathogenesis. A better understanding of the role of autophagy in IBD patients may provide better subclassification of IBD phenotypes and novel approaches to disease management.	Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) encompasses a group of disorders affecting the gastrointestinal tract characterized by acute and chronic inflammation. These are complex and multifactorial disorders that arise in part from a genetic predisposition. However, the increasing incidence of IBD in developing countries suggests that environmental factors, such as diet, are also critical components of disease susceptibility. Evidence suggests that consumption of a Western diet, enriched with saturated fat, refined carbohydrates, and food additives, is associated with increased IBD risk. Dietary components, such as omega-6 fatty acids, long-chain fatty acids, protein, and digestible carbohydrates, may contribute to IBD pathogenesis through altering intestinal microbiota, increasing intestinal permeability, and promoting inflammation; whereas omega-3 fatty acids, medium chain triglycerides, and nondigestible carbohydrates improve these parameters and intestinal health. However, the limited amount of prospective studies, small sample sizes, and the heterogeneity of disease subtype result in inconsistencies between studies and difficulty in conclusively determining the specific effects of diet on intestinal homeostasis. There are no standard clinical dietary recommendations for patients with IBD. However, exclusionary diet interventions have shown some efficacy in relieving symptoms or inducing remission, suggesting more research is needed to fully understand how diet influences disease behavior or combines with other IBD risk factors to promote disease. This review focuses on the associations of various dietary components and IBD risk in clinical studies and genetically susceptible IBD models. 	In the latter half of the 20th century, societal and technological changes led to a shift in the composition of the American diet to include a greater proportion of processed, pre-packaged foods high in fat and carbohydrates, and low in dietary fiber (a &quot;Western diet&quot;). Over the same time period, there have been parallel increases in Salmonella gastroenteritis cases and a broad range of chronic inflammatory diseases associated with intestinal dysbiosis. Several polysaccharide food additives are linked to bacterially-driven intestinal inflammation and may contribute to the pathogenic effects of a Western diet. Therefore, we examined the effect of a ubiquitous polysaccharide food additive, maltodextrin (MDX), on clearance of the enteric pathogen Salmonella using both in vitro and in vivo infection models. When examined in vitro, murine bone marrow-derived macrophages exposed to MDX had altered vesicular trafficking, suppressed NAPDH oxidase expression, and reduced recruitment of NADPH oxidase to Salmonella-containing vesicles, which resulted in persistence of Salmonella in enlarged Rab7+ late endosomal vesicles. In vivo, mice consuming MDX-supplemented water had a breakdown of the anti-microbial mucous layer separating gut bacteria from the intestinal epithelium surface. Additionally, oral infection of these mice with Salmonella resulted in increased cecal bacterial loads and enrichment of lamina propria cells harboring large Rab7+ vesicles. These findings indicate that consumption of processed foods containing the polysaccharide MDX contributes to suppression of intestinal anti-microbial defense mechanisms and may be an environmental priming factor for the development of chronic inflammatory disease.	Crohn's disease (CD) is associated with intestinal dysbiosis evidenced by an altered microbiome forming thick biofilms on the epithelium. Additionally, adherent-invasive E. coli (AIEC) strains are frequently isolated from ileal lesions of CD patients indicating a potential role for these strains in disease pathogenesis. The composition and characteristics of the host microbiome are influenced by environmental factors, particularly diet. Polysaccharides added to food as emulsifiers, stabilizers or bulking agents have been linked to bacteria-associated intestinal disorders. The escalating consumption of polysaccharides in Western diets parallels an increased incidence of CD during the latter 20(th) century. In this study, the effect of a polysaccharide panel on adhesiveness of the CD-associated AIEC strain LF82 was analyzed to determine if these food additives promote disease-associated bacterial phenotypes. Maltodextrin (MDX), a polysaccharide derived from starch hydrolysis, markedly enhanced LF82 specific biofilm formation. Biofilm formation of multiple other E. coli strains was also promoted by MDX. MDX-induced E. coli biofilm formation was independent of polysaccharide chain length indicating a requirement for MDX metabolism. MDX exposure induced type I pili expression, which was required for MDX-enhanced biofilm formation. MDX also increased bacterial adhesion to human intestinal epithelial cell monolayers in a mechanism dependent on type 1 pili and independent of the cellular receptor CEACAM6, suggesting a novel mechanism of epithelial cell adhesion. Analysis of mucosa-associated bacteria from individuals with and without CD showed increased prevalence of malX, a gene essential for MDX metabolism, uniquely in the ileum of CD patients. These findings demonstrate that the ubiquitous dietary component MDX enhances E. coli adhesion and suggests a mechanism by which Western diets rich in specific polysaccharides may promote dysbiosis of gut microbes and contribute to disease susceptibility.	Autophagy is triggered by the intracellular bacterial sensor NOD2 (nucleotide-binding, oligomerization domain 2) as an anti-bacterial response. Defects in autophagy have been implicated in Crohn's disease susceptibility. The molecular mechanisms of activation and regulation of this process by NOD2 are not well understood, with recent studies reporting conflicting requirements for RIP2 (receptor-interacting protein kinase 2) in autophagy induction. We examined the requirement of NOD2 signaling mediated by RIP2 for anti-bacterial autophagy induction and clearance of Salmonella typhimurium in the intestinal epithelial cell line HCT116. Our data demonstrate that NOD2 stimulates autophagy in a process dependent on RIP2 tyrosine kinase activity. Autophagy induction requires the activity of the mitogen-activated protein kinases MEKK4 and p38 but is independent of NFκB signaling. Activation of autophagy was inhibited by a PP2A phosphatase complex, which interacts with both NOD2 and RIP2. PP2A phosphatase activity inhibited NOD2-dependent autophagy but not activation of NFκB or p38. Upon stimulation of NOD2, the phosphatase activity of the PP2A complex is inhibited through tyrosine phosphorylation of the catalytic subunit in a process dependent on RIP2 activity. These findings demonstrate that RIP2 tyrosine kinase activity is not only required for NOD2-dependent autophagy but plays a dual role in this process. RIP2 both sends a positive autophagy signal through activation of p38 MAPK and relieves repression of autophagy mediated by the phosphatase PP2A.	Polymorphisms that reduce the function of nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain (NOD)2, a bacterial sensor, have been associated with Crohn's disease (CD). No proteins that regulate NOD2 activity have been identified as selective pharmacologic targets. We sought to discover regulators of NOD2 that might be pharmacologic targets for CD therapies. Carbamoyl phosphate synthetase/aspartate transcarbamylase/dihydroorotase (CAD) is an enzyme required for de novo pyrimidine nucleotide synthesis; it was identified as a NOD2-interacting protein by immunoprecipitation-coupled mass spectrometry. CAD expression was assessed in colon tissues from individuals with and without inflammatory bowel disease by immunohistochemistry. The interaction between CAD and NOD2 was assessed in human HCT116 intestinal epithelial cells by immunoprecipitation, immunoblot, reporter gene, and gentamicin protection assays. We also analyzed human cell lines that express variants of NOD2 and the effects of RNA interference, overexpression and CAD inhibitors. CAD was identified as a NOD2-interacting protein expressed at increased levels in the intestinal epithelium of patients with CD compared with controls. Overexpression of CAD inhibited NOD2-dependent activation of nuclear factor κB and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase, as well as intracellular killing of Salmonella. Reduction of CAD expression or administration of CAD inhibitors increased NOD2-dependent signaling and antibacterial functions of NOD2 variants that are and are not associated with CD. The nucleotide synthesis enzyme CAD is a negative regulator of NOD2. The antibacterial function of NOD2 variants that have been associated with CD increased in response to pharmacologic inhibition of CAD. CAD is a potential therapeutic target for CD.	The success of genetic analyses identifying multiple loci associated with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) susceptibility has resulted in the identification of several risk genes linked to a common cellular process called autophagy. Autophagy is a process involving the encapsulation of cytosolic cellular components in double-membrane vesicles, their subsequent lysosomal degradation, and recycling of the degraded components for use by the cell. It plays an important part in the innate immune response to a variety of intracellular pathogens, and it is this component of autophagy that appears to be defective in IBD. This has lead to the hypothesis that Crohn's disease may result from an impaired antibacterial response, which leads to ineffective control of bacterial infection, dysbiosis of the intestinal microbiota, and chronic inflammation. Several recurrent themes have surfaced from studies examining the function of autophagy-related genes in the context of IBD, with cellular context, disease status, risk variant effect, and risk gene interplay all affecting the interpretation of these studies. The identification of autophagy as a major risk pathway in IBD is a significant step forward and may lead to pathway-focused therapy in the future; however, there is more to understand in order to unravel the complexity of this disease.
McIntyre, Thomas	Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences	30150285	28455445	27227061	26720402	26471267	29354667	26003521	25163645	24412858	24177323	Activated platelets release functional, high m.w. epidermal growth factor (HMW-EGF). In this study, we show platelets also express epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor (EGFR) protein, but not ErbB2 or ErbB4 coreceptors, and so might respond to HMW-EGF. We found HMW-EGF stimulated platelet EGFR autophosphorylation, PI3 kinase-dependent AKT phosphorylation, and a Ca<sup>2+</sup> transient that were blocked by EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibition. Strong (thrombin) and weak (ADP, platelet-activating factor) G protein-coupled receptor agonists and non-G protein-coupled receptor collagen recruited EGFR tyrosine kinase activity that contributed to platelet activation because EGFR kinase inhibition reduced signal transduction and aggregation induced by each agonist. EGF stimulated ex vivo adhesion of platelets to collagen-coated microfluidic channels, whereas systemic EGF injection increased initial platelet deposition in FeCl3-damaged murine carotid arteries. EGFR signaling contributes to oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) tumorigenesis, but the source of its ligand is not established. We find individual platelets were intercalated within OSCC tumors. A portion of these platelets expressed stimulation-dependent Bcl-3 and IL-1β and so had been activated. Stimulated platelets bound OSCC cells, and material released from stimulated platelets induced OSCC epithelial-mesenchymal transition and stimulated their migration and invasion through Matrigel barriers. Anti-EGF Ab or EGFR inhibitors abolished platelet-induced tumor cell phenotype transition, migration, and invasion; so the only factor released from activated platelets necessary for OSCC metastatic activity was HMW-EGF. These results establish HMW-EGF in platelet function and elucidate a previously unsuspected connection between activated platelets and tumorigenesis through rapid, and prolonged, autocrine-stimulated release of HMW-EGF by tumor-associated platelets.	Platelets are the sole source of EGF in circulation, yet how EGF is stored or released from stimulated cells is undefined. In fact, we found platelets did not store EGF, synthesized as a single 6-kDa domain in pro-EGF, but rather expressed intact pro-EGF precursor on granular and plasma membranes. Activated platelets released high-molecular-weight (HMW)-EGF, produced by a single cleavage between the EGF and the transmembrane domains of pro-EGF. We synthesized a fluorogenic peptide encompassing residues surrounding the putative sessile arginyl residue and found stimulated platelets released soluble activity that cleaved this pro-EGF1020-1027 peptide. High throughput screening identified chymostatins, bacterial peptides with a central cyclic arginyl structure, as inhibitors of this activity. In contrast, the matrix metalloproteinase/TACE (tumor necrosis factor-α-converting enzyme) inhibitor GM6001 was ineffective. Stimulated platelets released the soluble protease ADAMDEC1, recombinant ADAMDEC1 hydrolyzed pro-EGF1020-1027, and this activity was inhibited by chymostatin and not GM6001. Biotinylating platelet surface proteins showed ADAMDEC1 hydrolyzed surface pro-EGF to HMW-EGF that stimulated HeLa EGF receptor (EGFR) reporter cells and EGFR-dependent tumor cell migration. This proteolysis was inhibited by chymostatin and not GM6001. Metabolizing pro-EGF Arg<sup>1023</sup> to citrulline with recombinant polypeptide arginine deiminase 4 (PAD4) abolished ADAMDEC1-catalyzed pro-EGF1020-1027 peptidolysis, while pretreating intact platelets with PAD4 suppressed ADAMDEC1-, thrombin-, or collagen-induced release of HMW-EGF. We conclude that activated platelets release ADAMDEC1, which hydrolyzes pro-EGF to soluble HMW-EGF, that HMW-EGF is active, that proteolytic cleavage of pro-EGF first occurs at the C-terminal arginyl residue of the EGF domain, and that proteolysis is the regulated and rate-limiting step in generating soluble EGF bioactivity from activated platelets.	Concordance between lipopolysaccharide and platelet activating factor - mediated events have suggested that the latter likely mediates all effects induced by the former. In this issue of Temperature, Steiner and Romanovsky challenge this notion, showing that while platelet activating factor is a potent pyrogenic mediator, the thermoregulatory responses to lipopolysaccharide are instead induced by prostaglandins. 	Acute inflammation either resolves or proceeds to fibrotic repair that replaces functional tissue. Pro-fibrotic hedgehog signaling and induction of its Gli transcription factor in pericytes induces fibrosis in kidney, but molecular instructions connecting inflammation to fibrosis are opaque. We show acute kidney inflammation resulting from chronic ingestion of the common xenobiotic ethanol initiates Gli1 transcription and hedgehog synthesis in kidney pericytes, and promotes renal fibrosis. Ethanol ingestion stimulated transcription of TGF-ß, collagens I and IV, and alpha-smooth muscle actin with accumulation of these proteins. This was accompanied by deposition of extracellular fibrils. Ethanol catabolism by CYP2E1 in kidney generates local reactive oxygen species that oxidize cellular phospholipids to phospholipid products that activate the Platelet-activating Factor receptor (PTAFR) for inflammatory phospholipids. Genetically deleting this ptafr locus abolished accumulation of mRNA for TGF-ß, collagen IV, and α-smooth muscle actin. Loss of PTAFR also abolished ethanol-stimulated Sonic (Shh) and Indian hedgehog (Ihh) expression, and abolished transcription and accumulation of Gli1. Shh induced in pericytes and Ihh in tubules escaped to urine of ethanol-fed mice. Neutrophil myeloperoxidase (MPO) is required for ethanol-induced kidney inflammation, and Shh was not present in kidney or urine of mpo-/- mice. Shh also was present in urine of patients with acute kidney injury, but not in normal individuals or those with fibrotic liver cirrhosis We conclude neither endogenous PTAFR signaling nor CYP2E1-generated radicals alone are sufficient to initiate hedgehog signaling, but instead PTAFR-dependent neutrophil infiltration with myeloperoxidase activation is necessary to initiate ethanol-induced fibrosis in kidney. We also show fibrogenic mediators escape to urine, defining a new class of urinary mechanistic biomarkers of fibrogenesis for an organ not commonly biopsied. 	Platelets express a functional ubiquitin-proteasome system. Mass spectrometry shows that platelets contain several deubiquitinases, but whether these are functional, modulate the proteome, or affect platelet reactivity are unknown. Platelet lysates contained ubiquitin-protein deubiquitinase activity hydrolyzing both Lys48 and Lys63 polyubiquitin conjugates that was suppressed by the chemically unrelated deubiquitinase inhibitors PYR41 and PR619. These inhibitors acutely and markedly increased monoubiquitination and polyubiquitination of the proteome of resting platelets. PYR41 (intravenous, 15 minutes) significantly impaired occlusive thrombosis in FeCl3-damaged carotid arteries, and deubiquitinase inhibition reduced platelet adhesion and retention during high shear flow of whole blood through microfluidic chambers coated with collagen. Total internal reflection microscopy showed that adhesion and spreading in the absence of flow were strongly curtailed by these inhibitors with failure of stable process extension and reduced the retraction of formed clots. Deubiquitinase inhibition also sharply reduced homotypic platelet aggregation in response to not only the incomplete agonists ADP and collagen acting through glycoprotein VI but also to the complete agonist thrombin. Suppressed aggregation was accompanied by curtailed procaspase activating compound-1 binding to activated IIb/IIIa and inhibition of P-selectin translocation to the platelet surface. Deubiquitinase inhibition abolished the agonist-induced spike in intracellular calcium, suppressed Akt phosphorylation, and reduced agonist-stimulated phosphatase and tensin homolog phosphatase phosphorylation. Platelets express the proteasome-associated deubiquitinases USP14 and UCHL5, and selective inhibition of these enzymes by b-AP15 reproduced the inhibitory effect of the general deubiquitinase inhibitors on ex vivo platelet function. Remodeling of the ubiquitinated platelet proteome by deubiquitinases promotes agonist-stimulated intracellular signal transduction and platelet responsiveness.	&quot;Let's Move!&quot; is a comprehensive initiative, launched by the First Lady, Michelle Obama, dedicates to solving problems of obesity, which is growing in child. The life behaviors do affect obesity; however, the mechanistic insight in molecular level is still not clear. In this study, by continually monitoring mouse body weight under chow and high fat western diets as well as metabolic, physical activity and food intake behaviors assessed in a CLAMS Comprehensive Lab Animal Monitoring System, we demonstrated that the platelet-activating factor receptor (PTAFR) contributes to modification of life behaviors. PTAFR does not affect metabolism of ingested dietary fat and carbohydrate in young animals; however, Ptafr ablation dramatically increased weight gain without affecting adipose tissue accumulation. Ptafr<sup>-/-</sup> mice possess new habits that increased food intake and decreased movement. Our studies suggest that regulation of PTAFR activity may be a novel strategy to control obesity in children or young adults.	Cytochrome P450 2E1 (CYP2E1) induction and oxidative metabolism of ethanol in hepatocytes inflame and damage liver. Chronic ethanol ingestion also induces kidney dysfunction, which is associated with mortality from alcoholic hepatitis. Whether the kidney is directly affected by ethanol or is secondary to liver damage is not established. We found that CYP2E1 was induced in kidney tubules of mice chronically ingesting a modified Lieber-deCarli liquid ethanol diet. Phospholipids of kidney tubules were oxidized and fragmented in ethanol-fed mice with accumulation of azelaoyl phosphatidylcholine (Az-PC), a nonbiosynthetic product formed only by oxidative truncation of polyunsaturated phosphatidylcholine. Az-PC stimulates the inflammatory PAF receptor (PTAFR) abundantly expressed by neutrophils and kidney tubules, and inflammatory cells and myeloperoxidase-containing neutrophils accumulated in the kidneys of ethanol-fed mice after significant hysteresis. Decreased kidney filtration and induction of the acute kidney injury biomarker KIM-1 in tubules temporally correlated with leukocyte infiltration. Genetic ablation of PTAFR reduced accumulation of PTAFR ligands and reduced leukocyte infiltration into kidneys. Loss of this receptor in PTAFR(-/-) mice also suppressed oxidative damage and kidney dysfunction without affecting CYP2E1 induction. Neutrophilic inflammation was responsible for ethanol-induced kidney damage, because loss of neutrophil myeloperoxidase in MPO(-/-) mice was similarly protective. We conclude that ethanol catabolism in renal tubules results in a self-perpetuating cycle of CYP2E1 induction, local PTAFR ligand formation, and neutrophil infiltration and activation that leads to myeloperoxidase-dependent oxidation and damage to kidney function. Hepatocytes do not express PTAFR, so this oxidative cycle is a local response to ethanol catabolism in the kidney. 	Activated platelets shed microparticles from plasma membranes, but also release smaller exosomes from internal compartments. While microparticles participate in athero-thrombosis, little is known of exosomes in this process. Ex vivo biochemical experiments with human platelets and exosomes, and FeCl3 -induced murine carotid artery thrombosis. Both microparticles and exosomes were abundant in human plasma. Platelet-derived exosomes suppressed ex vivo platelet aggregation and reduced adhesion to collagen-coated microfluidic channels at high shear. Injected exosomes inhibited occlusive thrombosis in FeCl3 -damaged murine carotid arteries. Control platelets infused into irradiated, thrombocytopenic mice reconstituted thrombosis in damaged carotid arteries, but failed to do so after prior ex vivo incubation with exosomes.CD36 promotes platelet activation, and exosomes dramatically reduced platelet CD36.CD36 is also expressed by macrophages, where it binds and internalizes oxidized LDL and microparticles, supplying lipid to promote foam cell formation. Platelet exosomes inhibited oxidized-LDL binding and cholesterol loading into macrophages. Exosomes were not competitive CD36 ligands, but instead sharply reduced total macrophage CD36 content. Exosomal proteins, in contrast to microparticle or cellular proteins, were highly adducted by ubiquitin. Exosomes enhanced ubiquitination of cellular proteins, including CD36, and blockade of proteosome proteolysis with MG-132 rescued CD36 expression. Recombinant unanchored K48 poly-ubiquitin behaved similarly to exosomes, inhibiting platelet function, macrophage CD36 expression and macrophage particle uptake. Platelet-derived exosomes inhibit athero-thrombotic processes by reducing CD36-dependent lipid loading of macrophages and by suppressing platelet thrombosis. Exosomes increase protein ubiquitination and enhance proteasome degradation of CD36.	Chronic ethanol ingestion mildly damages liver through oxidative stress and lipid oxidation, which is ameliorated by dietary supplementation with the anti-inflammatory β-amino acid taurine. Kidney, like liver, expresses cytochrome P450 2E1 that catabolizes ethanol with free radical formation, and so also may be damaged by ethanol catabolism. Sudden loss of kidney function, and not liver disease itself, foreshadows mortality in patients with alcoholic hepatitis [J. Altamirano, Clin. Gastroenterol. Hepatol. 2012, 10:65]. We found that ethanol ingestion in the Lieber-deCarli rat model increased kidney lipid oxidation, 4-hydroxynonenal protein adduction, and oxidatively truncated phospholipids that attract and activate leukocytes. Chronic ethanol ingestion increased myeloperoxidase-expressing cells in kidney and induced an inflammatory cell infiltrate. Apoptotic terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase nick-end labeling-positive cells and active caspase-3 increased in kidney after ethanol ingestion, with reduced filtration with increased circulating blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and creatinine. These events were accompanied by release of albumin, myeloperoxidase, and the acute kidney injury biomarkers kidney injury molecule-1 (KIM-1), neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin, and cystatin c into urine. Taurine sequesters HOCl from myeloperoxidase of activated leukocytes, and taurine supplementation reduced renal lipid oxidation, reduced leukocyte infiltration, and reduced the increase in myeloperoxidase-positive cells during ethanol feeding. Taurine supplementation also normalized circulating BUN and creatinine levels and suppressed enhanced myeloperoxidase, albumin, KIM-1, and cystatin c in urine. Thus, chronic ethanol ingestion oxidatively damages kidney lipids and proteins, damages renal function, and induces acute kidney injury through an inflammatory cell infiltrate. The anti-inflammatory nutraceutical taurine effectively interrupts this ethanol-induced inflammatory cycle in kidney. 	Proteasome inhibitors used in the treatment of hematologic cancers also reduce thrombosis. Whether the proteasome participates in platelet activation or function is unclear because little is known of the proteasome in these terminally differentiated cells. Platelets displayed all 3 primary proteasome protease activities, which MG132 and bortezomib (Velcade) inhibited. Proteasome substrates are marked by ubiquitin, and platelets contained a functional ubiquitination system that modified the proteome by monoubiquitination and polyubiquitination. Systemic MG132 strongly suppressed the formation of occlusive, platelet-rich thrombi in FeCl3-damaged carotid arteries. Transfusion of platelets treated ex vivo with MG132 and washed before transfusion into thrombocytopenic mice also reduced carotid artery thrombosis. Proteasome inhibition reduced platelet aggregation by low thrombin concentrations and ristocetin-stimulated agglutination through the glycoprotein Ib-IX-V complex. This receptor was not appropriately internalized after proteasome inhibition in stimulated platelets, and spreading and clot retraction after MG132 exposure also were decreased. The effects of proteasome inhibitors were not confined to a single receptor as MG132 suppressed thrombin-stimulated, ADP-stimulated, and lipopolysaccharide-stimulated microparticle shedding. Proteasome inhibition increased ubiquitin decoration of cytoplasmic proteins, including the cytoskeletal proteins Filamin A and Talin-1. Mass spectrometry revealed a single MG132-sensitive tryptic cleavage after R1745 in an extended Filamin A loop, which would separate its actin-binding domain from its carboxy terminal glycoprotein Ibα-binding domain. Platelets contain a ubiquitin/proteasome system that marks cytoskeletal proteins for proteolytic modification to promote productive platelet-platelet and platelet-wall interactions.
Messer, Jeannette	Inflammation and Immunity	28145439	27837217	23794574	18593857	15822531	29051186	27207671	25645662	25642769	30894054	Since microbes were first described in the mid-1600s, we have come to appreciate that they live all around and within us with both beneficial and detrimental effects on nearly every aspect of our lives. The human gastrointestinal tract is inhabited by a dynamic community of trillions of bacteria that constantly interact with each other and their human host. The acquisition of these bacteria is not stochastic but determined by circumstance (environment), host rules (genetics, immune state, mucus, etc), and dynamic self-selection among microbes to form stable, resilient communities that are in balance with the host. In this review, we will discuss how these factors lead to formation of the gut bacterial community and influence its interactions with the host. We will also address how gut bacteria contribute to disease and how they could potentially be targeted to prevent and treat a variety of human ailments.	Cell death is a major determinant of inflammatory disease severity. Whether cells live or die during inflammation largely depends on the relative success of the pro-survival process of autophagy versus the pro-death process of apoptosis. These processes interact and influence each other during inflammation and there is a checkpoint at which cells irrevocably commit to either one pathway or another. This review will discuss the concept of the autophagy/apoptosis checkpoint and its importance during inflammation, the mechanisms of inflammation leading up to the checkpoint, and how the checkpoint is regulated. Understanding these concepts is important since manipulation of the autophagy/apoptosis checkpoint represents a novel opportunity for treatment of inflammatory diseases caused by too much or too little cell death.	A common genetic coding variant in the core autophagy gene ATG16L1 is associated with increased susceptibility to Crohn's disease (CD). The variant encodes an amino acid change in ATG16L1 such that the threonine at position 300 is substituted with an alanine (ATG16L1 T300A). How this variant contributes to increased risk of CD is not known, but studies with transfected cell lines and gene-targeted mice have demonstrated that ATG16L1 is required for autophagy, control of interleukin-1-β and autophagic clearance of intracellular microbes. In addition, studies with human cells expressing ATG16L1 T300A indicate that this variant reduces the autophagic clearance of intracellular microbes. We demonstrate, using somatically gene-targeted human cells that the ATG16L1 T300A variant confers protection from cellular invasion by Salmonella. In addition, we show that ATG16L1-deficient cells are resistant to bacterial invasion. These results suggest that cellular expression of ATG16L1 facilitates bacterial invasion and that the CD-associated ATG16L1 T300A variant may confer protection from bacterial infection.	A 3-year-old, spayed female, mixed-breed dog was evaluated for acute, progressive neurological disease. Analysis of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) showed neutrophilic pleocytosis. The dog later developed liver disease, thrombocytopenia, and anemia that were presumably secondary to ceftriaxone administration. Bacterial cultures of blood, urine, and CSF were negative. However, a universal bacterial polymerase chain reaction assay of CSF identified deoxyribonucleic acid from Streptococcus spp. The dog recovered with therapy for streptococcal encephalitis.	Cystoscopy is a powerful tool for characterization of lower urinary tract disease in dogs and cats. Current applications of cystoscopy include diagnostic and interventional techniques. This article reviews cystoscopy equipment, procedures, and common applications of cystoscopy. A review of normal anatomy and common lower urinary tract lesions identifiable with cystoscopy is also presented.	The inducible heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70) is both cytoprotective and immunomodulatory, potentially accounting for its critical role in maintaining gastrointestinal homeostasis. When levels are reduced in conditions like inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD), loss of function contributes to the severity and chronicity of these diseases, although through which cell types and mechanisms remains unclear. Here, the role of Hsp70-mediated intestinal epithelial protection and immune regulation in experimental colitis was examined by using a villin promoter-driven Hsp70 transgene in the 2,4,6-trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS) and dextran sodium sulfate (DSS) models and in IL-10/Hsp70 double knockout (IL10<sup>-/-</sup>/Hsp70<sup>-/-</sup>) mice. In addition, Hsp70-mediated IL-10 production and immune protection were investigated using a CD45RB<sup>high</sup> transfer model and measuring colonic and immune cell cytokine expression during colitis. We found that the epithelial-specific expression of Hsp70 transgene attenuated DSS-induced colitis in Hsp70<sup>-/-</sup> mice by protecting tight junctions (TJ) and their interaction with the TJ-associated protein ZO-1. In the TNBS colitis and CD45RB<sup>high</sup> model, Hsp70 carried out its intracellular anti-inflammatory function by maintaining IL-10 production. Impaired ERK phosphorylation, but not p38 or JNK phosphorylation pathways, was associated with decreased IL-10 production in Hsp70-deficient cells. Together, these actions can be leveraged in the context of cellular specificity to develop complementary strategies that can lead to reduction in mucosal injury and immune activation in colonic colitis development. NEW &amp; NOTEWORTHY Using four different experimental colitis models, we filled an important gap in knowledge by defining essential roles of intracellular heat shock protein 70 in different cell types in maintaining intestinal integrity and immune regulation. These findings are relevant to human inflammatory bowel diseases and represent potential avenues for developing therapeutic strategies, not only to counter the destructive processes of inflammation but also to promote tissue healing and prevent complications frequently associated with chronic intestinal inflammation.	Colorectal cancer (CRC) develops from colonic epithelial cells that lose expression of key tumor suppressor genes and/or gain expression of proproliferative and antiapoptotic genes like heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70). Heat shock protein 70 is overexpressed in CRC, but it is not known whether this is in response to the proteotoxic stress induced by transformation, or if it contributes to the process of transformation itself. Here, using the Apc (Min/+) mouse model of CRC, we show that Hsp70 regulates mitogenic signaling in intestinal epithelial cells through stabilization of proteins involved in the receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) and WNT signaling pathways. Loss of Hsp70 reduced tumor size with decreased proliferation and increased tumor cell death. Hsp70 loss also led to decreased expression of ErbB2, Akt, ERK and β-catenin along with decreased β-catenin transcriptional activity as measured by c-myc and axin2 expression. Upregulation of RTK or WNT signals are frequent oncogenic events in CRC and many other cancers. Thus, in addition to the role of Hsp70 in cell-survival after transformation, Hsp70 stabilization of β-catenin, Akt, ERK and ErbB2 are predicted to contribute to transformation. This has important implications not only for understanding the pathophysiology of these cancers, but also for treatment since anti-EGFR antibodies are in clinical use for CRC and EGFR is a major ErbB2 heterodimeric partner. Targeting Hsp70, therefore, might provide an alternative or complementary strategy for achieving better outcomes for CRC and other related cancer types.	ATG16L1 is an autophagy gene known to control host immune responses to viruses and bacteria. Recently, a non-synonymous single-nucleotide polymorphism in ATG16L1 (Thr300Ala), previously identified as a risk factor in Crohn's disease (CD), was associated with more favourable clinical outcomes in thyroid cancer. Mechanisms underlying this observation have not been proposed, nor is it clear whether an association between Thr300Ala and clinical outcomes will be observed in other cancers. We hypothesised that Thr300Ala influences clinical outcome in human colorectal cancer (CRC) and controls innate antiviral pathways in colon cancer cells. We genotyped 460 patients with CRC and assessed for an association between ATG16L1 Thr300Ala and overall survival and clinical stage. Human CRC cell lines were targeted by homologous recombination to examine the functional consequence of loss of ATG16L1, or introduction of the Thr300Ala variant. We found an association between longer overall survival, reduced metastasis and the ATG16L1 Ala/Ala genotype. Tumour sections from ATG16L1 Ala/Ala patients expressed elevated type I interferons (IFN-I)-inducible, MxA, suggesting that differences in cytokine production may influence disease progression. When introduced into human CRC cells by homologous recombination, the Thr300Ala variant did not affect bulk autophagy, but increased basal production of type I IFN. Introduction of Thr300Ala resulted in increased sensitivity to the dsRNA mimic poly(I:C) through a mitochondrial antiviral signalling (MAVS)-dependent pathway. The CD-risk allele, Thr300Ala, in ATG16L1 is associated with improved overall survival in human CRC, generating a rationale to genotype ATG16L1 Thr300Ala in patients with CRC. We found that Thr300A alters production of MAVS-dependent type I IFN in CRC cells, providing a mechanism that may influence clinical outcomes.	The intracellular protein HMGB1 is released from cells and acts as a damage-associated molecular pattern molecule during many diseases, including inflammatory bowel disease (IBD); however, the intracellular function of HMGB1 during inflammation is poorly understood. Here, we demonstrated that cytosolic HMGB1 regulates apoptosis by protecting the autophagy proteins beclin 1 and ATG5 from calpain-mediated cleavage during inflammation. Colitis in mice with an intestinal epithelial cell-specific Hmgb1 deletion and patients with IBD were both characterized by increased calpain activation, beclin 1 and ATG5 cleavage, and intestinal epithelial cell (IEC) death compared with controls. In vitro cleavage assays and studies of enteroids verified that HMGB1 protects beclin 1 and ATG5 from calpain-mediated cleavage events that generate proapoptotic protein fragments. Together, our results indicate that HMGB1 is essential for mitigating the extent and severity of inflammation-associated cellular injury by controlling the switch between the proautophagic and proapoptotic functions of beclin 1 and ATG5 during inflammation. Moreover, these studies demonstrate that HMGB1 is pivotal for reducing tissue injury in IBD and other complex inflammatory disorders. 	Extracellular HMGB1 (high mobility group box 1) is considered as a damage-associated molecular pattern protein. However, little is known about its intracellular role. We studied the mechanism whereby intestinal epithelial HMGB1 contributes to host defense, using cell culture, colonoids, conditional intestinal epithelial HMGB1-knockout mice with Salmonella-colitis, il10<sup>-/-</sup> mice, and human samples. We report that intestinal HMGB1 is an important contributor to host protection from inflammation and infection. We identified a physical interaction between HMGB1 and STAT3. Lacking intestinal epithelial HMGB1 led to redistribution of STAT3 and activation of STAT3 post bacterial infection. Indeed, Salmonella-infected HMGB1-deficient cells exhibited less macroautophagy/autophagy due to decreased expression of autophagy proteins and transcriptional repression by activated STAT3. Then, increased p-STAT3 and extranuclear STAT3 reduced autophagic responses and increased inflammation. STAT3 inhibition restored autophagic responses and reduced bacterial invasion in vitro and in vivo. Moreover, low level of HMGB1 was correlated with reduced nuclear STAT3 and enhanced p-STAT3 in inflamed intestine of il10<sup>-/-</sup> mice and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) patients. We revealed that colonic epithelial HMGB1 was directly involved in the suppression of STAT3 activation and the protection of intestine from bacterial infection and injury. Abbreviations: ATG16L1: autophagy-related 16-like 1 (S. cerevisiae); DAMP: damage-associated molecular pattern; HBSS: Hanks balanced salt solution; HMGB1: high mobility group box 1; IBD: inflammatory bowel disease; IL1B/Il-1β: interleukin 1 beta; IL10: interleukin 10; IL17/IL-17: interleukin 17; MEFs: mouse embryonic fibroblasts; STAT3: signal transducer and activator of transcription 3; TLR: toll-like receptor; TNF/TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor.
Mian, Omar	Translational Hematology and Oncology Research	27563532	26447830	24740136	18282518	21693597	15728378	12732451	30202792	30327311	31059665	The complex planning and quality assurance required for spine SBRT are a barrier to implementation in time-sensitive or limited resource clinical situations. We developed and validated an automated inverse planning algorithm designed to streamline planning and allow rapid delivery of conformal single fraction spine SBRT using widely available technology. The Rapid Spine (RaSp) automated script successfully generated single fraction SBRT plans for fourteen complex spinal lesions previously treated at a single high-volume institution. Automated RaSp plans were limited to 5 beams with a total of 15 segments (allowing calculation-based verification) and optimized based on RTOG 0631 objectives. Standard single fraction (16 Gy) stereotactic IMRT plans were generated for the same set of complex spinal lesions and used for comparison. A conservative 2 mm posterior isocenter shift was used to simulate minor set-up error. Automated plans were generated in under 5 min from target definition and had a mean dose to the PTV of 1663 cGy (SD 131.5), a dose to 90 % of PTV (D90) of 1358 cGy (SD 111.0), and a maximum point dose (Dmax) to the PTV of 2055 cGy (SD 195.2) on average. IMRT plans took longer to generate but yielded more favorable dose escalation with a mean dose to the PTV of 1891 cGy (SD 117.6), D90 of 1731 cGy (SD 126.5), and Dmax of 2218 cGy (SD 195.7). A 2 mm posterior shift resulted in a 20 % (SD 10.5 %) increase in cord dose for IMRT plans and a 10 % (SD 5.3 %) increase for RaSp plans. The 2 mm perturbation caused 3 cord dose violations for the IMRT plans and 1 violation for corresponding RaSp plans. The Rapid Spine plan method yields timely and dosimetrically reasonable SBRT plans which meet RTOG 0631 objectives and are suitable for rapid yet robust pretreatment quality assurance followed by expedited treatment delivery. RaSp plans reduce the tradeoff between rapid treatment and optimal dosimetry in urgent cases and limited resource situations.	Epigenetic silencing of glutathione S-transferase π (GSTP1) is a hallmark of transformation from normal prostatic epithelium to adenocarcinoma of the prostate. The functional significance of this loss is incompletely understood. The present study explores the effects of restored GSTP1 expression on glutathione levels, accumulation of oxidative DNA damage, and prostate cancer cell survival following oxidative stress induced by protracted, low dose rate ionizing radiation (LDR). GSTP1 protein expression was stably restored in LNCaP prostate cancer cells. The effect of GSTP1 restoration on protracted LDR-induced oxidative DNA damage was measured by GC-MS quantitation of modified bases. Reduced and oxidized glutathione levels were measured in control and GSTP1 expressing populations. Clonogenic survival studies of GSTP1- transfected LNCaP cells after exposure to protracted LDR were performed. Global gene expression profiling and pathway analysis were performed. GSTP1 expressing cells accumulated less oxidized DNA base damage and exhibited decreased survival compared to control LNCaP-Neo cells following oxidative injury induced by protracted LDR. Restoration of GSTP1 expression resulted in changes in modified glutathione levels that correlated with GSTP1 protein levels in response to protracted LDR-induced oxidative stress. Survival differences were not attributable to depletion of cellular glutathione stores. Gene expression profiling and pathway analysis following GSTP1 restoration suggests this protein plays a key role in regulating prostate cancer cell survival. The ubiquitous epigenetic silencing of GSTP1 in prostate cancer results in enhanced survival and accumulation of potentially promutagenic DNA adducts following exposure of cells to protracted oxidative injury suggesting a protective, anti-neoplastic function of GSTP1. The present work provides mechanistic backing to the tumor suppressor function of GSTP1 and its role in prostate carcinogenesis.	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma is a highly lethal cancer that is rarely curable at the time of presentation. Unfortunately, most patients are diagnosed with either metastatic or locally advanced disease, which is not amenable to surgery owing to the high likelihood of incomplete resection. Given the generally poor prognosis with propensity for metastatic failure greater than that for local failure, treatment options are variable, and include chemotherapy, radiotherapy, targeted therapies, and combinations thereof. This review summarizes the current evidence for definitive management of locally advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma, as well as the role of palliative therapies. Future directions, including the development of predictive biomarkers and novel systemic agents, are also discussed. 	The sequence complexity of the known vertebrate genomes alone is insufficient to account for the diversity between individuals of a species. Although our knowledge of vertebrate biology has evolved substantially with the growing compilation of sequenced genomes, understanding the temporal and spatial regulation of genes remains fundamental to fully exploiting this information. The importance of epigenetic factors in gene regulation was first hypothesized decades ago when biologists posited that methylation of DNA could heritably alter gene expression [Holliday and Pugh, 1975. Science 187(4173), 226-232; Riggs, 1975. Cytogenet. and Cell Genet.14(1), 9-25; Scarano et al., 1967. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 57(5), 1394-1400)]. It was subsequently shown that vertebrate DNA methylation, almost exclusively at the 5' position of cytosine in the dinucleotide CpG, played a role in a number of processes including embryonic development, genetic imprinting, cell differentiation, and tumorigenesis. At the time of this writing, a large and growing list of genes is known to exhibit DNA methylation-dependent regulation, and we understand in some detail the mechanisms employed by cells in using methylation as a regulatory modality. In this context, we revisit one of the original systems in which the role of DNA methylation in vertebrate gene regulation during development was described and studied: erythroid cells. We briefly review the recent advances in our understanding of DNA methylation and, in particular, its regulatory role in red blood cells during differentiation and development. We also address DNA methylation as a component of erythroid chromatin architecture, and the interdependence of CpG methylation and histone modification.	Methyl cytosine binding domain protein 2 (MBD2) has been shown to bind to and mediate repression of methylated tumor suppressor genes in cancer cells, where repatterning of CpG methylation and associated gene silencing is common. We have investigated the role of MBD2 in breast cancer cell growth and tumor suppressor gene expression. We show that stable short hairpin RNA (shRNA)-mediated knockdown of MBD2 leads to growth suppression of cultured human mammary epithelial cancer lines, SK-BR-3, MDA-MB-231, and MDA-MB-435. The peak antiproliferative occurs only after sustained, stable MBD2 knockdown. Once established, the growth inhibition persists over time and leads to a markedly decreased propensity for aggressive breast cancer cell lines to form in vivo xenograft tumors in Bagg Albino (BALB)/C nu/nu mice. The growth effects of MBD2 knockdown are accompanied by derepression of tumor suppressor genes, including DAPK1 and KLK10. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays and bisulfite sequencing show MBD2 binding directly to the hyper methylated and CpG-rich promoters of both DAPK1 and KLK10. Remarkably, the promoter CpG island-associated methylation of these genes remained stable despite robust transcriptional activation in MBD2 knockdown cells. Expression of a shRNA-resistant MBD2 protein resulted in restoration of growth and resilencing of the MBD2-dependent tumor suppressor genes. Our data suggest that uncoupling CpG methylation from repressive chromatin remodeling and histone modifications by removing MBD2 is sufficient to initiate and maintain tumor suppressor gene transcription and suppress neoplastic cell growth. These results show a role for MBD2 in cancer progression and provide support for the prospect of targeting MBD2 therapeutically in aggressive breast cancers.	Circulating monocytes mediate inflammation in atherosclerosis and may serve as easily accessible reporters of disease. To search for markers of atherosclerosis, we compared the in vivo transcriptomes of monocytes purified from patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy and normal subjects by using the serial analysis of gene expression technique. We selected a subset of differentially expressed monocyte-specific genes and confirmed their expression levels. The Finkel-Biskis-Jinkins osteosarcoma (FOS) gene was significantly increased in patients, and the highest levels of FOS associated with patients who had previously undergone coronary revascularization. The correlation between coronary revascularization and FOS was higher than that compared with the cardiac risk marker high sensitivity C-reactive protein. In vitro inhibition of FOS using small interfering RNA and 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl CoA reductase inhibitor simvastatin (statin) affected monocyte activation and suggested an important role in pathogenesis. Given the prominent role of FOS in inflammation and calcification, its association with atherosclerosis severity has clear pathophysiologic bases as well as clinical implications as a marker. Our results suggest that analysis of gene expression in circulating cells may provide biological and clinical insights into human atherosclerosis, and that this type of approach may be applicable for studying other types of diseases.	The recently sequenced mammalian genomes represent unprecedented resources for advancing our understanding of human diseases. Characterizing gene expression is an important step in translating genomic sequences into clinically useful information. Currently, gene expression studies are revolutionizing the approaches taken to address both basic science and clinical questions. Two major methods have emerged for the global examination of the transcriptome: microarrays and Serial Analysis of Gene Expression (SAGE). The SAGE technique comprehensively maps gene transcription by using the genomic database, yet it remains relatively underutilized for studying cardiovascular biology. This review describes current cardiovascular studies using the SAGE technique and outlines some potential strategies for employing this powerful tool to further our understanding of the cardiovascular system in health and in disease.	There has been little progress in the use of patient-derived xenografts (PDX) to guide individual therapeutic strategies. In part, this can be attributed to the operational challenges of effecting successful engraftment and testing multiple candidate drugs in a clinically workable timeframe. It also remains unclear whether the ancestral tumor will evolve along similar evolutionary trajectories in its human and rodent hosts in response to similar selective pressures (i.e., drugs). Herein, we combine a metastatic clear cell adenocarcinoma PDX with a timely 3 mouse x 1 drug experimental design, followed by a co-clinical trial to longitudinally guide a patient's care. Using this approach, we accurately predict response to first- and second-line therapies in so far as tumor response in mice correlated with the patient's clinical response to first-line therapy (gemcitabine/nivolumab), development of resistance and response to second-line therapy (paclitaxel/neratinib) before these events were observed in the patient. Treatment resistance to first-line therapy in the PDX is coincident with biologically relevant changes in gene and gene set expression, including upregulation of phase I/II drug metabolism (CYP2C18, UGT2A, and ATP2A1) and DNA interstrand cross-link repair (i.e., XPA, FANCE, FANCG, and FANCL) genes. A total of 5.3% of our engrafted PDX collection is established within 2 weeks of implantation, suggesting our experimental designs can be broadened to other cancers. These findings could have significant implications for PDX-based avatars of aggressive human cancers.	Transcriptomic profiling can shed light on the biology of small-cell bladder cancer (SCBC), nominating biomarkers, and novel therapeutic targets. Sixty-three patients with SCBC had small-cell histology confirmed and quantified by a genitourinary pathologist. Gene expression profiling was performed for 39 primary tumor samples, 1 metastatic sample, and 6 adjacent normal urothelium samples (46 total) from the same cohort. Protein levels of differentially expressed therapeutic targets, DLL3 and PDL1, and also CD56 and ASCL1, were confirmed by IHC. A SCBC PDX model was utilized to assess in vivo efficacy of DLL3-targeting antibody-drug conjugate (ADC). Unsupervised hierarchical clustering of 46 samples produced 4 clusters that correlated with clinical phenotypes. Patients whose tumors had the most &quot;normal-like&quot; pattern of gene expression had longer overall survival (OS) compared with the other 3 clusters while patients with the most &quot;metastasis-like&quot; pattern had the shortest OS (P = 0.047). Expression of DLL3, PDL1, ASCL1, and CD56 was confirmed by IHC in 68%, 30%, 52%, and 81% of tissue samples, respectively. In a multivariate analysis, DLL3 protein expression on &gt;10% and CD56 expression on &gt;30% of tumor cells were both prognostic of shorter OS (P = 0.03 each). A DLL3-targeting ADC showed durable antitumor efficacy in a SCBC PDX model. Gene expression patterns in SCBC are associated with distinct clinical phenotypes ranging from more indolent to aggressive disease. Overexpression of DLL3 mRNA and protein is common in SCBC and correlates with shorter OS. A DLL3-targeted ADC demonstrated in vivo efficacy superior to chemotherapy in a PDX model of SCBC.	We assessed the impact of cribriform pattern and/or intraductal carcinoma on Gleason 7 prostate cancer treated with external beam radiotherapy. We evaluated men with Gleason 7 (Grade Groups 2 and 3) prostate cancer treated with dose escalated external beam radiotherapy with or without androgen deprivation. We reviewed biopsies for the presence of cribriform pattern and/or intraductal carcinoma. Study end points included biochemical recurrence-free, distant metastasis-free and disease specific survival. In the 237 patients median followup was 117 months (range 3 to 236). According to National Comprehensive Cancer Network® risk groups 24% of patients were at favorable intermediate risk, 53% were at unfavorable intermediate risk and 23% were at high risk. The rate of cribriform pattern without intraductal carcinoma, cribriform pattern with intraductal carcinoma, intraductal carcinoma without cribriform pattern and none of these morphologies was 36%, 13%, 0% and 51%, respectively. On multivariable analysis cribriform pattern with intraductal carcinoma (HR 4.22, 95% CI 2.08-8.53, p &lt;0.0001), prostate specific antigen 10 to 20 ng/ml (HR 1.97, 95% CI 1.03-3.79, p=0.04) and prostate specific antigen greater than 20 ng/ml (HR 2.26, 95% CI 1.21-4.23, p=0.01) were associated with worse biochemical recurrence-free survival. On multivariable analysis only cribriform pattern with intraductal carcinoma was associated with inferior distant metastasis-free survival (HR 4.18, 95% CI 1.43-12.28, p=0.01) and disease specific survival (HR 14.26, 95% CI 2.75-74.04, p=0.0016). Factors associated with cribriform pattern with or without intraductal carcinoma included Grade Group 3, high risk group and 50% or more positive biopsy cores. When stratified by neither morphology present, cribriform pattern without intraductal carcinoma and cribriform pattern with intraductal carcinoma the differences in biochemical recurrence-free, distant metastasis-free and disease specific survival were statistically significant (p=0.00042, p=0.017 and p &lt;0.0001, respectively). Cribriform pattern with intraductal carcinoma was associated with adverse outcomes in men with Gleason 7 prostate cancer treated with external beam radiotherapy while cribriform pattern without intraductal carcinoma was not so associated. Future studies may benefit from dichotomizing these 2 histological entities.
Midura, Ronald	Biomedical Engineering	29310784	29119853	27815598	25046535	24764277	21958842	19967451	19450716	18765929	17936099	Hyaluronan (HA) exhibits numerous important roles in physiology and pathologies, and these facts necessitate an ability to accurately and reproducibly measure its quantities in tissues and cell cultures. Our group previously reported a rigorous and analytical procedure to quantify HA (and chondroitin sulfate, CS) using a reductive amination chemistry and separation of the fluorophore-conjugated, unsaturated disaccharides unique to HA and CS on high concentration acrylamide gels. This procedure is known as fluorophore-assisted carbohydrate electrophoresis (FACE) and has been adapted for the detection and quantification of all glycosaminoglycan types. While this previous FACE procedure is relatively straightforward to implement by carbohydrate research investigators, many nonglycoscience laboratories now studying HA biology might have difficulties establishing this prior FACE procedure as a routine assay for HA. To address this need, we have greatly simplified our prior FACE procedure for accurate and reproducible assessment of HA in tissues and cell cultures. This chapter describes in detail this simplified FACE procedure and, because it uses an enzyme that degrades both HA and CS, investigators will also gain additional insight into the quantities of CS in the same samples dedicated for HA analysis.	Background and purpose - A better understanding of the patterns and variation in initiation and progression of osteoarthritis (OA) in the knee may influence the design of therapies to prevent or slow disease progression. By studying cartilage from the human lateral femoral condyle (LFC), we aimed to: (1) assess specimen distribution into early, mild, moderate, and severe OA as per the established histopathological scoring systems (HHGS and OARSI); and (2) evaluate whether these 2 scoring systems provide sufficient tools for characterizing all the features and variation in patterns of OA. Patients and methods - 2 LFC osteochondral specimens (4 x 4 x 8 mm) were collected from 50 patients with idiopathic OA varus knee and radiographically preserved lateral compartment joint space undergoing total knee arthroplasty. These were fixed, sectioned, and stained with HE and Safranin O-Fast Green (SafO). Results - The histopathological OA severity distribution of the 100 specimens was: 6 early, 62 mild, 30 moderate, and 2 severe. Overall, 45/100 specimens were successfully scored by both HHGS and OARSI: 12 displayed low OA score and 33 displayed cartilage surface changes associated with other histopathological features. However, 55/100 samples exhibited low surface structure scores, but were deemed to be inadequately scored by HHGS and OARSI because of anomalous features in the deeper zones not accounted for by these systems: 27 exhibited both SafO and tidemark abnormal features, 16 exhibited only SafO abnormal features, and 12 exhibited tidemark abnormal features. Interpretation - LFC specimens were scored as mild to moderate OA by HHGS and OARSI. Yet, several specimens exhibited deep zone anomalies while maintaining good surface structure, inconsistent with mild OA. Overall, a better classification of these anomalous histopathological features could help better understand idiopathic OA and potentially recognize different subgroups of disease.	To determine the concentrations exhibiting toxicity of a cartilage-targeted magnetic resonance imaging contrast agent compared with gadopentetate dimeglumine (Gd-DT-PA) in chondrocyte cultures. A long-term Swarm rat chondrosarcoma chondrocyte-like cell line was exposed for 48 h to 1.0-20 mM concentrations of diaminobutyl-linked nitroxide (DAB4-DLN) citrate, 1.0-20 mM Gd-DTPA, 1.0 μM staurosporine (positive control), or left untreated. Cell appearance, 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assays of metabolic activity, quantitative PicoGreen assays of DNA content, and calcein-AM viability assays were compared. At 1.0-7.5 mM, minimal decrease in cell proliferation was found for both agents. At all doses of both agents, cell culture appearances were similar after 24 h of treatment. At the higher doses, differences in cell culture appearance were found after 48 h of treatment, with dose-dependent declines in chondrocyte populations for both agents. Concentration-dependent declines in DNA content and calcein fluorescence were found after 48 h of treatment, but beginning at a lower dose of DAB4-DLN citrate than Gd-DTPA. Dose-dependent decreases in MTT staining (cell metabolism) were apparent for both agents, but larger effects were evident at a lower dose for DAB-DLN citrate. Poor MTT staining of cells exposed for 48 h to 20 mM DAB4-DLN citrate probably indicates dead or dying cells. The minimal effect of the long-term exposure of model chondrocyte cell cultures to DAB4-DLN citrate and Gd-DTPA concentrations up to 7.5 mM (3x typical arthrographic administration) is supporting evidence that these doses are acceptable for MR arthrography. The findings are reassuring given that the experimental exposure to the contrast agents at sustained concentrations was much longer than when used clinically.	Contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance (MR) imaging methods have been proposed for non-invasive evaluation of osteoarthritis (OA). We measured cell toxicities of cartilage-targeted low-generation dendrimer-linked nitroxide MR contrast agents and gadopentetate dimeglumine (Gd-DTPA) on cultured chondrocytes. A long-term Swarm rat chondrosarcoma chondrocyte-like cell line was exposed for 48-h to different salts (citrate, maleate, tartrate) and concentrations of generation one or two diaminobutyl-linked nitroxides (DAB4-DLN or DAB8-DLN), Gd-DTPA, or staurosporine (positive control). Impact on microscopic cell appearance, MTT spectrophotometric assays of metabolic activity, and quantitative PicoGreen assays of DNA content (cell proliferation) were measured and compared to untreated cultures. Chondrocyte cultures treated with up to 7.5 mM Gd-DTPA for 48-h had no statistical differences in DNA content or MTT reaction compared to untreated cultures. At all doses, DAB4-DLN citrate treated cultures had results similar to untreated and Gd-DTPA-treated cultures. At doses &gt;1 mM, DAB4-DLN citrate treated cultures showed statistically greater DNA and MTT reaction than maleate and tartrate DAB4-DLN salts. Cultures exposed to 5 mM or 7.5 mM DAB8-DLN citrate exhibited rounded cells, poor cell proliferation, and barely detectable MTT reaction. Treatment with 0.1 μM staurosporine caused chondrocyte death. Long-term exposure, greater than clinically expected, to either DAB4-DLN citrate or Gd-DTPA had no detectable toxicity with results equivalent to untreated cultures. DAB4-DLN citrate was more biocompatible than either the maleate or tartrate salts. Cells exposed for 48-h to 5 mM or 7.5 mM DAB8-DLN salts demonstrated significant cell toxicity. Further evaluation of DAB8-DLN with clinically appropriate exposure times is required to determine the maximum useful concentration.	Delayed bone healing has been noted in osteoporosis patients and in the ovariectomized (OVX) rat model of estrogen-depletion osteopenia. Pulsed electromagnetic field (PEMF) devices are clinically approved as an adjunct to cervical fusion surgery in patients at high risk for non-fusion and for the treatment of fracture non-unions. These bone growth stimulating devices also accelerate the healing of fresh fracture repair in skeletally mature normal rats but have not been tested for efficacy to accelerate and/or enhance the delayed bone repair process in OVX rats. The current study tested the hypothesis that daily PEMF treatments would improve the fracture healing response in skeletally mature OVX rats. By 6 weeks of healing, PEMF treatments resulted in improved hard callus elastic modulus across fibula fractures normalizing the healing process in OVX rats with respect to this mechanical property. Radiographic evidence showed an improved hard callus bridging across fibula fractures in OVX rats treated with PEMF as compared to sham treatments. These findings provide a scientific rationale for investigating whether PEMF might improve bone-healing responses in at-risk osteoporotic patients.	In long bone diaphyses, woven bone forms first and then transitions into a more mineralized compact bone tissue. Prior evidence suggests that the non-collagenous protein composition of woven bone may be distinct from that of more mature bone tissue, particularly with respect to a diverse group of phosphorylated, extracellular matrix proteins. To critically test this hypothesis, we developed an in situ approach to isolate newly formed bone from more mature bone within the same long bone, and combine this anatomical approach with Western blotting to make relative comparisons of 7 phosphorylated matrix proteins important for bone physiology and biomineralization. Interestingly, 75 kDa bone sialoprotein (BSP), 63 kDa osteopontin, and the 75 kDa form of bone acidic glycoprotein-75 (BAG-75) were enriched in primary bone as opposed to more mature cortical bone, while osteonectin, fetuin A, matrix extracellular phosphoglycoprotein (MEPE) and dentin matrix protein-1 (DMP-1) appeared to be equally distributed between these two bone tissue compartments. Analyses also revealed the presence of larger sized forms of osteopontin (and to a lesser degree BSP) mostly in newly formed bone, while larger forms of BAG-75 were mostly detected in more mature cortical bone. Smaller sized forms of DMP-1 and BAG-75 were detected in both newly formed and more mature bone tissue extracts, and they are likely the result of proteolytic processing in vivo. Intact DMP-1 (97 kDa) was only detected in unmineralized matrix extracts. These findings indicate that newly formed bone exhibits a non-collagenous matrix protein composition distinct from that of more mature compact bone even within the same long bone, and suggest that the temporal fate of individual non-collagenous proteins is variable in growing bone.	In vivo the hydraulic permeability of cortical bone influences the transport of nutrients, waste products and signaling molecules, thus influencing the metabolic functions of osteocytes and osteoblasts. In the current study two hypotheses were tested: the presence of (1) lipids and (2) collagen matrix in the porous compartment of cortical bone restricts its permeability. Our approach was to measure the radial permeability of adult canine cortical bone before and after extracting lipids with acetone-methanol, and before and after digesting collagen with bacterial collagenase. Our results showed that the permeability of adult canine cortical bone was below 4.0x10(-17) m2, a value consistent with prior knowledge. After extracting lipids, permeability increased to a median value of 8.6x10(-16) m2. After further digesting with collagenase, permeability increased to a median value of 1.4x10(-14) m2. We conclude that the presence of both lipids and collagen matrix within the porous compartment of cortical bone restricts its radial permeability. These novel findings suggest that the chemical composition of the tissue matrix within the porous compartment of cortical bone influences the transport and exchange of nutrients and waste products, and possibly influences the metabolic functions of osteocytes and osteoblasts.	Daily injection of parathyroid hormone (PTH) is a clinically approved treatment for osteoporosis. It suppresses apoptosis of bone-forming osteoblasts although its exact anti-apoptotic mechanism(s) is incompletely understood. In this study, PTH treatment of cultured osteoblasts blocked the pro-apoptotic effects of serum withdrawal and nutrient deprivation; hydrogen peroxide induced oxidative stress, and UV irradiation. We hypothesized that PTH might suppress osteoblast apoptosis by enhancing DNA repair. Evidence is provided showing that post-confluent, non-proliferating osteoblasts treated with PTH exhibited a protein kinase A-mediated activation of two proteins that regulate DNA repair processes (proliferating cell nuclear antigen and forkhead box transcription factor 3a) as well as a suppression of the pro-apoptotic growth arrest and DNA damage protein 153. Additional proof of a connection between DNA damage and osteoblast apoptosis came from an unexpected finding whereby a majority of fixed PTH-treated osteoblasts scored weakly positive for Terminal Deoxynucleotidyl dUTP Nick-End Labeling (TUNEL), even though similar cultures were determined to be viable via a trypsin replating strategy. TUNEL identifies DNA excision repair, not just apoptotic DNA fragmentation, and the most likely explanation of these TUNEL results is that PTH's activation of DNA repair processes would permit nucleotide incorporation as a result of enhanced excision repair. This explanation was confirmed by an enhanced incorporation of bromodeoxyuridine in PTH-treated cells even though a majority of the cell population was determined to be non-replicating. An augmentation of DNA repair by PTH is an unreported finding, and provides an additional explanation for its anti-apoptotic mechanism(s).	Calcium-containing spherical bodies (calcospherulites) exist along the mineralization front of bone and are thought to play a role in bone formation. Existing methods to isolate calcospherulites involve harsh treatments that remove much of their organic matter. This study sought to isolate them using a less destructive approach to better preserve their organic components. Juvenile rats were injected with a low dose of calcein to label the newly formed mineral at the mineralization front of bone in vivo. Periosteum was completely dissected from the tibial diaphysis and unmineralized osteoid matrix was removed by collagenase in order to expose calcospherulites. Calcein-labeled calcospherulites of approximately 0.5 mum average diameter were observed all along the mineralization front and they exhibited a Ca/P ratio of 1.3 in situ. Calcospherulites were released from the mineralization front by a short dispase digestion and isolated via fluorescence flow sorting. X-ray diffraction revealed they contained apatite crystals (c-axis length of 17.5 +/- 0.2 nm) and their Ca/P ratio was preserved during isolation. Calcospherulites treated with ice-cold ethanol exhibited a Ca/P ratio of 1.6, suggesting the presence of some extractable phospholipids. Proteins extracted from isolated calcospherulites were resolved by SDS-PAGE into more than 20 distinct bands. Western blot analyses showed the presence of matrix proteins in these preparations. These results indicate that calcospherulites can be isolated from the mineralization front of bone in a form that can be used to study their proteome and lipid composition.	Previous work has suggested that &quot;calcospherulites&quot; actively participate in the mineralization of developing and healing bone. This study sought to directly test this hypothesis by developing a method to isolate calcospherulites and analyzing their capacity to seed mineralization of fibrillar collagen. The periosteal surface of juvenile rat tibial diaphysis was enriched in spherulites of approximately 0.5-mum diameter exhibiting a Ca/P ratio of 1.3. Their identity as calcospherulites was confirmed by their uptake of calcein at the tibial mineralization front 24 h following in vivo injection. Periosteum was dissected and unmineralized osteoid removed by collagenase in order to expose calcospherulites. Calcein-labeled calcospherulites were then released from the mineralization front by dispase digestion and isolated via fluorescence flow sorting. X-ray diffraction analysis revealed they contained apatite crystals (c-axis length of 17.5+/-0.2 nm), though their Ca/P ratio of 1.3 is lower than that of hydroxyapatite. Much of their non-mineral phosphorous content was removed by ice-cold ethanol, elevating their Ca/P ratio to 1.6, suggesting the presence of phospholipids. Western blot analyses showed the presence of bone matrix proteins and type I collagen in these preparations. Incubating isolated calcospherulites in collagen hydrogels demonstrated that they could seed a mineralization reaction on type I collagen fibers in vitro. Ultrastructural analyses revealed crystals on the collagen fibers that were distributed rather uniformly along the fiber lengths. Furthermore, crystals were observed at distances well away from the observed calcospherulites. Our results directly support an active role for calcospherulites in inducing the mineralization of type I collagen fibers at the mineralization front of bone.
Min, Booki	Inflammation and Immunity	30700587	15879097	17075245	17132717	17549737	18632726	18832679	19008933	19667092	19920180	IL-27 regulates immune responses in inflammation. The underlying mechanism of IL-27 functions has long been attributed to its ability to induce IL-10 production in activated CD4 T cells. In this study, we report that Foxp3<sup>+</sup> regulatory T cells (Tregs) are the main target cells of IL-27, mediating its immunoregulatory functions in vivo. Systemically delivered IL-27 efficiently prevents the development of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, an autoimmune inflammation in the CNS. However, it failed to do so upon Treg depletion. IL-27 signaling in Tregs was necessary, as transferring Tregs deficient in IL-27Rα or Lag3, a downstream molecule induced by IL-27, was unable to protect mice from experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. IL-27 efficiently induced IL-10 expression in CD4 T cells in vitro; however, we found no evidence supporting IL-27-induced IL-10 induction in CD4 T cells in vivo. Taken together, our results uncover an irreplaceable contribution of Tregs during IL-27-mediated control of inflammation.	Transfer of naive CD4 T cells into lymphopenic mice initiates a proliferative response of the transferred cells, often referred to as homeostatic proliferation. Careful analysis reveals that some of the transferred cells proliferate rapidly and undergo robust differentiation to memory cells, a process we have designated spontaneous proliferation, and other cells proliferate relatively slowly and show more limited evidence of differentiation. In this study we report that spontaneous proliferation is IL-7 independent, whereas the slow proliferation (referred to as homeostatic proliferation) is IL-7 dependent. Administration of IL-7 induces homeostatic proliferation of naive CD4 T cells even within wild-type recipients. Moreover, the activation/differentiation pattern of the two responses are clearly distinguishable, indicating that different activation mechanisms may be involved. Our results reveal the complexity and heterogeneity of lymphopenia-driven T cell proliferation and suggest that they may have fundamentally distinct roles in the maintenance of CD4 T cell homeostasis.	Activation of innate immunity is closely associated to development of protective adaptive immune response. Significant advances have been made to reveal such links between innate immunity and Th1 type adaptive immune responses. By contrast, the role of innate immunity in the development of Th2 type adaptive immune responses is still not well understood. Production of IL-4, a key cytokine in the induction of Th2 immunity, by innate type cells represents an attractive mechanism for such an innate link to Th2 immunity. We have recently reported that in the course of infection with the intestinal nematode, Nippostrongylus brasiliensis, a robust basophil accumulation in the liver/spleen occurs and that these basophils display enhanced IL-4 production. Thus, the basophils is an attractive candidate to mediate the innate-adaptive link for Th2 responses and understanding the control of the tissue homing patterns and cytokine responses of basophils in the course of infections may shed important light on the in vivo induction of Th2 adaptive immunity.	While production of cytokines such as IL-12 by activated dendritic cells supports development of Th1 type immunity, a source of early IL-4 that is responsible for Th2 immunity is not well understood. We now show that coculture of basophils could promote a robust Th2 differentiation upon stimulation of naive CD4 T cells primarily via IL-4. Th2 promotion by basophils was also observed even when naive CD4 T cells were stimulated in a Th1-promoting condition or when fully differentiated Th1 phenotype effector CD4 T cells were restimulated. IL-4-deficient basophils failed to induce Th2 differentiation but suppressed Th1 differentiation. It was subsequently revealed that the IL-4-deficient basophils must engage cell-to-cell contact to exert the inhibitory effect on Th1 differentiation. Stimulation of naive CD4 T cells within an in vivo environment of increased basophil generation supported development of Th2 type immunity. Taken together, our results suggest that basophils may provide an important link for the development of Th2 immunity.	CD25(+) regulatory T cells (Treg) are a heterogeneous population that exists as CD44(low) and CD44(high) cells. Here we report that while both CD44(low) and CD44(high) Treg are anergic and express similar levels of Foxp3, CD44(high) Treg are highly proliferative in vivo and are more potent suppressors in vitro than CD44(low) Treg. From analysis of the properties of Treg derived from germ-free mice, it was concluded that peptide antigens derived from intestinal microorganisms are not essential for the generation, in vivo proliferation or suppressive activity of Treg. Our results suggest that gut flora antigens play little or no role in the heterogeneity and homeostatic regulation of Treg.	Enhanced basophil production is often associated with T(h)2-related conditions such as parasite infections or allergic inflammations. Our previous study demonstrated that T cell activation is necessary to promote basophil production in Nippostrongylus brasiliensis (Nb)-infected mice. Yet, mechanisms underlying how T cells aid infection-induced basophil production are not clear. In this report, we show that IL-3 produced by T cells activated by the infection enhances basophil production in Nb-infected mice. IL-3-deficient mice or Rag2-/- recipients of IL-3-deficient T cells but not of wild-type T cells failed to support basophil production following the Nb infection. Interestingly, although IL-3 was critical for preventing basophil apoptosis in vitro, IL-3 had little contribution to basophil survival and proliferation in vivo. Collectively, these results highlight a novel mechanism by which activation of adaptive immune components induces basophil production but not basophil survival via IL-3 production.	Although an inhibitory function of IL-4 in CD4 T cell IL-2 production has long been recognized, a mechanism mediating the inhibition remains unclear. In this study we demonstrate that IL-4 displays a potent suppressive function in IL-2 production of activated CD4 T cells through STAT6. IL-4-induced IL-2 suppression required IL-2 because IL-2 neutralization restored the production of IL-2 even in the presence of IL-4. In vivo, enhanced IL-2 production was found in nematode-infected IL-4- or STAT6-deficient animals, whereas immunization in the presence of IL-4 substantially diminished IL-2 production by Ag-specific CD4 T cells. IL-2 mRNA expression was reduced when T cells were stimulated in the presence of IL-4, whereas IL-2 mRNA decay was unaltered, suggesting that IL-4 mediates the suppression at a transcriptional level. Blimp-1 induced by IL-4 stimulation in activated CD4 T cells was found to be necessary to mediate the IL-2 inhibition as IL-4-mediated IL-2 suppression was less pronounced in activated CD4 T cells deficient in Blimp-1. Taken together, our results demonstrate a potential link with IL-4, Blimp-1, and IL-2 production, suggesting that Blimp-1 may play an important role in controlling IL-2 production in activated T cells and in adaptive T cell immunity.	Basophils, the least abundant granulocytes, have poorly understood functions. They have been linked to the development of T helper type 2 immunity during parasite infection and allergic inflammation. Emerging evidence has not only shown the critical involvement of basophils in the development of T helper type 2 immunity but also provided useful animal models with which basophil functions can be further examined. However, distinctions must be made between what basophils 'can do' after in vitro manipulation and what they 'actually do' during in vivo immune responses; these may be very different. In this review, the functions of basophils determined on the basis of analysis of in vitro and in vivo systems and their potential involvement in clinical settings are discussed.	There is increasing evidence suggesting that basophils play a critical role in developing Th2-type immunity both in vitro and in vivo. We previously reported that basophils cocultured with naive CD4 T cells stimulated with Ag promote the differentiation of the T cells into IL-4-producing Th2 cells. In the present study, we examined the roles of basophils during CD8 T cell activation. Although stimulating OVA-specific OT-I CD8 T cells with OVA peptide-pulsed splenic dendritic cells primarily induced the production of IFN-gamma, adding basophils into the coculture induced IL-10 production. Surprisingly, basophils were capable of directly presenting peptide Ag or of cross-presenting protein Ag to CD8 T cells. CD28-mediated costimulation dramatically enhanced T cell IL-10 production, yet neither ICOS nor CD86 was involved in IL-10 production. Basophil-mediated IL-10 induction was greatly diminished without IL-4 or IL-6, indicating that these cytokines are necessary for programming CD8 T cell IL-10 production. Adding IL-4 or IL-6 into CD8/APC coculture was not sufficient to induce IL-10 production; however, the presence of both cytokines significantly induced IL-10 production without basophils. Finally, CD8 T cells producing IL-10 induced by basophils did not display regulatory cell functions. Collectively, these results suggest a novel function of basophils that act as professional APCs to present Ag to CD8 T cells, thus inducing IL-10 production.	T cells transferred into severe lymphopenic hosts undergo rapid proliferation known as &quot;endogenous proliferation&quot; that are distinct from conventional homeostatic proliferation. Unlike homeostatic proliferation, cytokines, such as IL-7 are dispensable, yet TCR:MHC interaction is essential for this process to occur. However, cell types inducing the proliferation have not formally been addressed. In this study, we report that CD11c+ conventional DCs play irreplaceable roles in inducing endogenous proliferation of both naive and memory phenotype CD4 T cells via TCR-MHC II interaction. By contrast, CD8 T-cell endogenous proliferation was independent of MHC I or CD11c+ DCs. Interestingly, MHC II was necessary to support naive CD8 T-cell proliferation within MHC I-deficient hosts. Depletion of both B cells and DCs was sufficient to abrogate the proliferation of naive but not of memory CD8 T cells. These results suggest that depending on the T-cell lineages, as well as the differentiation status, different mechanisms control endogenous proliferation, revealing in vivo complexity of T-cell proliferation under lymphopenic conditions.
Moravec, Christine	Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences	24878771	24842913	21972325	20044278	18540144	15312825	12431450	11514373	11040107	10728422	Mammalian hearts express two myosin heavy chain (MHC) isoforms, which drive contractions with different kinetics and power-generating ability. The expression of the isoform that is associated with more rapid contraction kinetics and greater power output, MHC-α, is downregulated, with a concurrent increase in the relative amount of the slower isoform, MHC-β, during the progression to experimentally induced or disease-related heart failure. This change in protein expression has been well studied in right and left ventricles in heart failure models and in humans with failure. Relatively little quantitative data exists regarding MHC isoform expression shifts in human failing atria. We previously reported significant increases in the relative amount of MHC-β in the human failing left atrium. The results of that study suggested that there might be a sex-related difference in the level of MHC-β in the left atrium, but the number of female subjects was insufficient for statistical analysis. The objective of this study was to test whether there is, in fact, a sex-related difference in the level of MHC-β in the right and left atria of humans with cardiomyopathy. The results indicate that significant differences exist in atrial MHC isoform expression between men and women who are in failure. The results also revealed an unexpected twofold greater amount of MHC-β in the nonfailing left atrium of women, compared with men. The observed sex-related differences in MHC isoform expression could impact ventricular diastolic filling during normal daily activities, as well as during physiologically stressful events. 	We hypothesized that S100A1 is regulated during human hypertrophy and heart failure and that it may be implicated in remodeling after left ventricular assist device. S100A1 is decreased in animal and human heart failure, and restoration produces functional recovery in animal models and in failing human myocytes. With the potential for gene therapy, it is important to carefully explore human cardiac S100A1 regulation and its role in remodeling. We measured S100A1, the sarcoplasmic endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)ATPase, phospholamban, and ryanodine receptor proteins, as well as β-adrenergic receptor density in nonfailing, hypertrophied (left ventricular hypertrophy), failing, and failing left ventricular assist device-supported hearts. We determined functional consequences of protein alterations in isolated contracting muscles from the same hearts. S100A1, sarcoplasmic endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)ATPase and phospholamban were normal in left ventricular hypertrophy, but decreased in failing hearts, while ryanodine receptor was unchanged in either group. Baseline muscle contraction was not altered in left ventricular hypertrophy or failing hearts. β-Adrenergic receptor and inotropic response were decreased in failing hearts. In failing left ventricular assist device-supported hearts, S100A1 and sarcoplasmic endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)ATPase showed no recovery, while phospholamban, β-adrenergic receptor, and the inotropic response fully recovered. S100A1 and sarcoplasmic endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)ATPase, both key Ca(2+)-regulatory proteins, are decreased in human heart failure, and these changes are not reversed after left ventricular assist device. The clinical significance of these findings for cardiac recovery remains to be addressed.	Biofeedback is a method of training subjects to regulate their own physiology using feedback from physiologic sensors connected to an output display. Biofeedback-assisted stress management (BFSM) incorporates the physiologic signals with instructions on stress management. The goal of BFSM training is to give subjects the tools to control their own mental and physiologic reactions, leading to improved health and wellness. In cardiovascular disease, overactivation of the sympathetic component of the autonomic nervous system and psychologic stress together negatively affect quality of life and clinical status. BFSM targets both areas. We hypothesize that this intervention can be used in cardiovascular disease to improve clinical status and quality of life, as well as interfere with disease progression. We are conducting trials of BFSM in heart failure and stable coronary artery disease. Preliminary data suggest that use of BFSM by heart failure patients may actually cause cellular and molecular remodeling of the failing heart in the direction of normal. We are comparing the effects of BFSM with usual care in patients with stable coronary artery disease, testing the hypothesis that the intervention will decrease both sympathetic hyperarousal and activation of the inflammatory cascade. Since heart rate variability is abnormal in both cardiovascular disease and depression, and since BFSM has been successfully used to change heart rate variability, we also expect this intervention to have a positive impact on the depression that often accompanies cardiovascular disease.	Intracellular Ca(2+) handling is abnormal in human heart failure. Studies have demonstrated that left ventricular assist device (LVAD) support reverses phenotypic alterations, suggesting that, in select patients, LVAD support may be a bridge to recovery. Few studies have related support duration to phenotypic recovery. We hypothesized that reversal of impaired sarcoendoplasmic reticulum (SR) Ca(2+) cycling following LVAD implantation is duration-dependent. We used post-rest potentiation to assess SR function, and Western blot analysis to measure Ca(2+)-cycling proteins. Left ventricular tissue from 10 non-failing hearts, 8 failing hearts and 10 LVAD-supported hearts was analyzed. Support ranged from 7 to 334 days. The median duration, 115 days, divided patients into short- and long-term support groups. Post-rest potentiation (PRP) response recovered after short-term LVAD support to a level (116.8 +/- 12.1%; n = 5) close to non-failing (123.4 +/- 12.0%; n = 10) hearts, but recovery after long-term support (23.5 +/- 7.0%; n = 5) remained closer to that of failing hearts (13.5 +/- 5.6%). We found a similar pattern of normalization for SR Ca(2+)-ATPase protein and the phospholamban/SR Ca(2+)-ATPase ratio (non-failing: 0.66 +/- 0.11; failing: 1.21 +/- 0.23; short-duration LVAD: 0.68 +/- 0.14; long-duration LVAD: 1.67 +/- 0.30; correlation p &lt; 0.001; r = 0.93). The ratio also tended to correlate with the PRP response after unloading (p = 0.05; r = -0.65). SR Ca(2+) handling improved during early LVAD support, but long-term support was associated with abnormal Ca(2+) cycling. These findings cast doubt on strategies designed to wean patients after complete unloading with an LVAD.	Biofeedback has much therapeutic potential in cardiovascular diseases, since many of these diseases involve dysregulation of the autonomic nervous system. Studies have clearly demonstrated that patients can use biofeedback techniques to regulate the input of the autonomic nervous system to the heart, but the clinical utility of these techniques has not been well explored in systematic trials. Much biofeedback research to date has focused on patients with hypertension, but outcomes have been inconclusive. Preliminary studies suggest that heart rate variability biofeedback may be useful in improving symptoms and quality of life in patients with cardiac disease, and early studies suggest a possible effect of biofeedback on remodeling of the failing heart. Both of these areas require further research, however. Biofeedback is increasingly used as an adjunct to stress management in cardiac rehabilitation programs, providing the impetus for a large-scale, systematic study of self-regulation in cardiac disease.	Mechanical support of the failing human heart with a left ventricular assist device (LVAD) normalizes many components of myocyte structure and function. We hypothesized that recovery of the cytoskeleton, a major site of mechanotransduction in cardiac myocytes, is crucial for sustained improvement of myocardial function. We therefore measured the effects of LVAD support on 4 cytoskeletal proteins in single human heart cells. Myocytes were isolated from non-failing (NF), hypertrophied (H), failing (F) and LVAD-supported failing (L) human hearts. Protein quantitation was performed using Western blot analysis and cellular distribution was determined by immunolabeling and confocal microscopy. alpha-actinin did not differ in cells from H or F as compared with NF, and L had no effect. Vinculin was not quantitatively different in H or F vs NF, but localization at the intercalated disks was significantly decreased in H and absent in F, and this pattern was consistently reversed in L. Desmin protein was significantly increased in F vs NF, both in quantity and distribution, and these increases were reversed in L. beta-tubulin was increasingly polymerized in H and F, and the hyperpolymerization was reversed in L. On the level of the single cardiomyocyte, major proteins of the cytoskeleton are significantly altered in hypertrophied and failing human hearts. These alterations are reversed by mechanical unloading with an LVAD, suggesting that the cytoskeleton is not the limiting factor in determining full cardiac recovery.	Increasing evidence suggests that derangements of cytoskeletal proteins contribute to alterations in intracellular signaling, myocyte function, and the coupling of myocytes to the extracellular matrix during cardiac hypertrophy and failure. Data from animal studies have shown an increased density of beta-tubulin protein in the right or left ventricle subjected to pressure overload, and have demonstrated that interfering with excess polymerization of beta-tubulin improves contractility. We tested the hypothesis that beta-tubulin is increased in human left ventricular hypertrophy and end-stage heart failure. Confocal microscopy of fluorescently labeled beta-tubulin protein revealed an increased density of the beta-tubulin network in cardiomyocytes from both hypertrophied and failing human hearts as compared to cells from nonfailing hearts. Western blot analysis on total heart homogenate showed no change in beta-tubulin when data were normalized to either actin or calsequestrin, although there was a significant increase in failing human hearts when data were normalized only for a constant amount of protein per heart. The mRNA for beta-tubulin was not changed in hypertrophied hearts, but was significantly decreased in failing human hearts. Thus, similar to animal models, we have shown that the density of the microtubular network within the cardiomyocyte is increased in end-stage failing human hearts. We have also shown for the first time that beta-tubulin density is increased in cells from hypertrophied human hearts. Although the functional implications of this finding in the human heart remain to be explored, data from animal studies suggest that increased beta-tubulin protein contributes to cardiac dysfunction.	Mechanical unloading of the failing human heart with a left ventricular assist device (LVAD) results in clinically documented reversal of chamber dilation and improvement of cardiac function. We tested the hypothesis that LVAD support normalizes the ability of cardiac muscle to respond to sympathetic nervous system stimulation by reversing the downregulation of beta-adrenergic receptors. Human LV tissue was obtained from nonfailing hearts of unmatched organ donors and failing hearts at the time of transplantation, with or without LVAD. Baseline contractile parameters and inotropic response to a beta-adrenergic agonist were measured in isolated trabecular muscles. beta-Adrenergic receptor density was quantified by radioligand binding. Results showed a significant increase in the response to beta-adrenergic stimulation after LVAD (developed tension increased by 0.76+/-0.09 g/mm(2) in nonfailing, 0.38+/-0.07 in failing, and 0.68+/-0.10 in failing+LVAD; P&lt;0.01), accompanied by an increased density of beta-adrenergic receptors (58.7+/-9.6 fmol/mg protein in nonfailing, 26.2+/-3.8 in failing, and 63.0+/-8.3 in failing+LVAD; P&lt;0.05). These changes were unrelated to the duration of support. Data demonstrate that mechanically supporting the failing human heart with an LVAD can reverse the downregulation of beta-adrenergic receptors and restore the ability of cardiac muscle to respond to inotropic stimulation by the sympathetic nervous system. This indicates that functional impairment of cardiac muscle in human heart failure is reversible.	Although myocarditis has been implicated in the pathogenesis of heart failure, a definitive relationship between myocardial inflammation, cardiac dysfunction, and changes in myocyte gene expression has not been established. In this study, we examined the hypothesis that myocardial inflammation and replacement fibrosis following an autoimmune response can progress to cardiac dysfunction and may result in progression to the heart failure phenotype. SWXJ mice were immunized with cardiac myosin on day 0 and day 7, in order to induce an autoimmune response to the myosin protein. Cardiac catheterization via the right carotid artery was performed on days 14, 21, 28, 35, and 42, using a 1.4F Millar transducer-tipped catheter. Hearts were weighed, and cross-sections were cut and stained with either haematoxylin and eosin or Masson's trichrome, in order to identify areas of inflammation and/or fibrosis. Myocardial gene expression was determined by Northern blot analysis. In mice with histological evidence of myocarditis, the heart weight/body weight ratio increased beginning on day 14, and cardiac function decreased beginning on day 21. Myocardial inflammation was accompanied by significant fibrosis beginning on day 21. Quantitation of mRNA showed expression of ventricular atrial naturietic factor, as well as a decrease in myosin heavy chain alpha, beginning on day 21. These data demonstrate that autoimmune inflammation of the heart results in significant cardiac dysfunction, leading to phenotypic alterations similar to those demonstrated in human heart failure and animal models of heart failure.	The failing human heart is characterized by changes in the expression and function of proteins involved in intracellular Ca2+ cycling, resulting in altered Ca2+ transients and impaired contractile properties of cardiac muscle. The role of the cardiac annexins in this process remains unclear. Annexins may play a role in the regulation of Ca2+ pumps and exchangers on the sarcolemma, and have been shown to be altered in some cardiac disease states. The goal of this study was to compare the immunolocalization and expression of annexins IV, V and VI in failing and non-failing human hearts. We used immunostaining to identify the subcellular location of annexins IV, V and VI proteins within the myocardial cell, and Western blot analysis to quantify the proteins in the same hearts. Annexin IV showed a cytoplasmic distribution in both failing and non-failing human heart cells. Annexin V was localized at the z-line, around lipofuscin granules, and in the cytosol in the non-failing heart cells. Annexin VI was localized at the sarcolemma and intercalated disc. Protein levels of annexins IV and V were up-regulated in failing human hearts, while the expression of annexin VI was unchanged. Alterations in the intracellular localization of annexins, along with up-regulation of annexins IV and V in the failing human heart cells, suggests differential regulation of these Ca2+ regulatory proteins during heart failure.
Morris-Stiff, Gareth	Cancer Biology	31206465	31176601	29038855	28890311	28821481	28645922	28790092	28619737	27260526	26984696	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is lethal, and the majority of patients present with locally advanced or metastatic disease that is not amenable to cure. Thus, with surgical resection being the only curative modality, it is critical that disease is identified at an earlier stage to allow the appropriate therapy to be applied. Unfortunately, a specific biomarker for early diagnosis has not yet been identified; hence, no screening process exists. Recently, high-throughput screening and next-generation sequencing (NGS) have led to the identification of novel biomarkers for many disease processes, and work has commenced in PDAC. Genomic data generated by NGS not only have the potential to assist clinicians in early diagnosis and screening, especially in high-risk populations, but also may eventually allow the development of personalized treatment programs with targeted therapies, given the large number of gene mutations seen in PDAC. This review introduces the basic concepts of NGS and provides a comprehensive review of the current understanding of genetics in PDAC as related to discoveries made using NGS.	Previous studies have demonstrated the prognostic significance of pathologic tumor response in pancreatic adenocarcinoma following neoadjuvant therapy (NAT). The aim of this study was to determine the incidence of significant pathologic response to NAT in borderline resectable pancreatic cancer (BRPC), and association of NAT regimen and other clinico-pathologic characteristics with pathologic response. Patients with BRPC who underwent NAT and pancreatic resection between January 2012 and June 2017 were included. Pathologic response was assessed on a qualitative scale based on the College of American Pathologists grading system. Demographics and baseline characteristics, oncologic treatment, pathology, and survival outcomes were compared. Seventy-one patients were included for analysis. Four patients had complete pathologic responses (tumor regression score 0), 12 patients had marked responses (score 1), 42 had moderate responses (score 2), and 13 had minimal responses (score 3). Patients with complete or marked responses were more likely to have received neoadjuvant gemcitabine chemoradiation (62.5%, 38.1%, and 23.1% of the complete/marked, moderate, and minimal response groups, respectively; P = 0.04). Of the complete/marked, moderate, and minimal response groups, margins were negative in 75.0%, 78.6%, and 46.2% (P = 0.16); node negative disease was observed in 87.5%, 54.8%, and 15.4% (P &lt; 0.01); and median overall survival was 50.0 months, 31.7 months, and 23.2 months (P = 0.563). Of the four patients with pathologic complete responses, three were disease-free at 66.1, 41.7 and 31.4 months, and one was deceased with metastatic liver disease at 16.9 months. A more pronounced pathologic tumor response to NAT in BRPC is correlated with node negative disease, but was not associated with a statistically significant survival benefit in this study.	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma is the most common primary malignancy of the pancreas. The classic imaging features are a hypovascular mass with proximal ductal dilatation. Different pancreatic pathologies can mimic the imaging appearance of carcinoma including other tumors involving the pancreas (pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors, lymphoma, metastasis, and rare tumors like pancreatic acinar cell carcinoma and solid pseudopapillary tumors), inflammatory processes (chronic pancreatitis and autoimmune pancreatitis), and anatomic variants (annular pancreas). Differentiation between these entities can sometimes be challenging due to overlap of imaging features. The purpose of this article is to describe the common entities that can mimic pancreatic cancer on imaging with illustrative examples and to suggest features that can help in differentiation of these entities.	Patients with altered anatomy due to Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) present unique diagnostic and therapeutic challenges when they present with periampullary pathology. We describe a series of patients who underwent pancreatoduodenectomy (PD) after gastric surgery with Roux-en-Y reconstruction and review the literature to highlight technical considerations and outcomes. Patients from two institutions were identified and data regarding preoperative workup, operative conduct, and pathologic and clinical outcomes were collected. Eleven patients were included in the institutional series. At the time of periampullary pathology, the median age was 64 years and time since RYGB was 10 years. Median operative time was 361 minutes, estimated blood loss was 500 mLs, and length of stay was 6 days. Remnant gastrectomy was performed in nine patients and reconstruction was performed using the biliopancreatic limb (BP) without revision of the jejuno-jejunostomy in ten patients. Pathology revealed pancreatic cancer (8), chronic pancreatitis (2), and duodenal cancer (1). Three patients experienced major complications and there were no 90-day mortalities. Pancreatic surgeons will see an increasing number of patients with Roux-en-Y anatomy who will require evaluation and resection for periampullary diseases. For PD after RYGB, we recommend remnant gastrectomy with reconstruction using the BP limb.	Leiomyoma is a benign neoplasm originating from smooth muscle cells and is most commonly seen in the uterus, followed by the small bowel and oesophagus. We report a rare case of a 41-year-old male patient with a spermatic cord leiomyoma that presented as an inguinal canal mass mimicking an irreducible inguinal hernia without scrotal involvement. This report highlights the rare presentation and workup of an inguinal mass, importance of intraoperative decision making based on operative findings and the significance of postoperative pathology findings.	High-grade dysplasia (HGD) of the cystic duct margin without evidence of concurrent malignancy is a rare occurrence. We present a case of a 36-year-old woman who developed gallstone pancreatitis and subsequently underwent a laparoscopic cholecystectomy. On histopathology, she was found to have HGD at the cystic duct margin. Following evaluation, she underwent excision of the cystic duct remnant with no malignancy being present on final pathology. We present this case to discuss the management of cystic duct dysplasia in the absence of gallbladder malignancy.	We report a case of a 56-year-old woman who presented with worsening abdominal pain located in the left upper quadrant together with abdominal distention, nausea and anorexia. One month prior to this admission, she had presented and had been diagnosed with concurrent acute pancreatitis and rapidly expanding abdominal aortic aneurysm. The aneurysm was prioritised over the pancreatitis and she underwent uncomplicated endovascular repair. Cross-sectional imaging was consistent with infected pancreatic necrosis and also revealed a large collection located in the anterior pararenal space with extensive gas formation. An image-guided fluid aspiration revealed Clostridium perfringens as the causative organism. She was treated by placement of large bore drains along with irrigation and targeted intravenous antibiotic for 6 weeks. The collections resolved completely and at 6 months follow-up she was well and symptom free.	Acute massive gastric dilatation (AMGD) is a rare distinctive condition but associates with high morbidity and mortality. Though usually seen in patients with eating disorders, many aetiologies of AMGD have been described. The distension has been reported to cause gastric necrosis with or without perforation, usually within 1-2 days of an inciting event of AMGD.We report the case of a 58-year-old male who presented with gastric perforation associated with AMGD 11 days after surgical relief of a proximal small bowel obstruction. The AMGD arose from a closed loop obstruction between a tumour at the gastro-oesophageal junction and a small bowel obstruction as a result of volvulus around a jejunal feeding tube.To our knowledge, this is the first case of a closed loop obstruction of this aetiology reported in the literature, and the presentation of this patient's AMGD was notable for the delayed onset of gastric necrosis. The patient underwent an exploratory laparotomy and a partial gastrectomy to excise a portion of his perforated stomach. Surgeons should be aware of the possibility of delayed ischaemic gastric perforation in cases of AMGD.	The aim of this study was to report a Western experience in the diagnosis and management of choledochal cyst disease. Sixty-seven patients were identified including 15 children and 52 adults; 76.1 % were females. The median age at diagnosis was 3 [inter-quartile range (IQR) = 6.0-0.7] years for children, and 46 [IQR = 55.6-34.3] years for adults. Forty-eight patients (72 %) were symptomatic. Types of choledochal cyst included: I (n = 49, 73.1 %), II (n = 1, 1.5 %), IV (n = 9, 13.4 %), and V (n = 8, 12 %). The median diameter of the type I choledochal cyst was 35 [IQR = 47-25] mm. All 48 patients underwent excision of cyst with Roux-en-Y hepaticojejunostomy, and eight underwent resection with hepaticoduodenostomy. Six patients underwent liver resection, and five patients underwent orthotopic liver transplantation. Malignancy was concomitant in five adult patients, being identified on preoperative imaging in three cases; and atypia was seen in three additional patients. Early morbidity included Clavien-Dindo classification grades III (n = 7) and II (n = 5), while long-term complications consisted of Clavien-Dindo grades V (n = 5), IV (n = 2), III (n = 18), and II (n = 1). Presentation and management of choledochal cyst is varied. Malignant transformation is often detected incidentally, and so should be the driving source for resection when a choledochal cyst is diagnosed.	The aim of this study was to assess whether the lack of a radiological mass in patients with periampullary malignancies led to protracted diagnosis, delayed resection, and an inferior outcome. The departmental database was interrogated to identify all patients undergoing pancreatoduodenectomy during the period 2000-2014. The absence of a mass on cross-sectional and endoscopic ultrasound was noted. The interval between imaging and surgery was evaluated and related to the absence of a mass. The relationship between mass/no mass and the pathological profile was also assessed. Among 490 patients who underwent pancreatoduodenectomy for periampullary malignancies, masses were detected in 299 patients. Patients with undetected mass on either endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) or computed tomography (CT)/magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) had a longer median interval from initial imaging to resection than detected mass with no difference in survival (66 vs. 41 days, p = 0.001). The absence of a mass was more common in cholangiocarcinomas (p &lt; 0.001). The absence of a mass on imaging was associated with smaller size on final histopathology (2.4 vs. 2.8 cm; p &lt; 0.001). The absence of a mass with all modalities in patients with a periampullary malignancy leads to a delayed diagnosis without a significant effect on survival.
Morton, Richard	Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences	26203075	25616437	25593327	24293641	21937674	19008550	18369235	17901467	17522050	16905138	We previously reported that reducing the expression of cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) disrupts cholesterol homeostasis in SW872 cells and causes an ∼50% reduction in TG. The causes of this reduced TG content, investigated here, could not be attributed to changes in the differentiation status of CETP-deficient cells, nor was there evidence of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. In short-term studies, the total flux of oleate through the TG biosynthetic pathway was not altered in CETP-deficient cells, although mRNA levels of some pathway enzymes were different. However, the conversion of diglyceride (DG) to TG was impaired. In longer-term studies, newly synthesized TG was not effectively transported to lipid droplets, yet this lipid did not accumulate in the ER, apparently due to elevated lipase activity in this organelle. DG, shown to be a novel CETP substrate, was also inefficiently transferred to lipid droplets. This may reduce TG synthesis on droplets by resident diacylglycerol acyltransferase. Overall, these data suggest that the decreased TG content of CETP-deficient cells arises from the reduced conversion of DG to TG in the ER and/or on the lipid droplet surface, and enhanced TG degradation in the ER due to its ineffective transport from this organelle. 	We previously determined that hamster cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP), unlike human CETP, promotes a novel one-way transfer of TG from VLDL to HDL, causing HDL to gain lipid. We hypothesize that this nonreciprocal lipid transfer activity arises from the usually high TG/cholesteryl ester (CE) substrate preference of hamster CETP. Consistent with this, we report here that ∼25% of the total lipid transfer promoted by the human Q199A CETP mutant, which prefers TG as substrate, is nonreciprocal transfer. Other human CETP mutants with TG/CE substrate preferences higher or lower than wild-type also possess nonreciprocal lipid transfer activity. Mutants with high TG/CE substrate preference promote the nonreciprocal lipid transfer of TG from VLDL to HDL, but mutants with low TG/CE substrate preference promote the nonreciprocal lipid transfer of CE, not TG, and this lipid flow is in the reverse direction (from HDL to VLDL). Anti-CETP TP2 antibody alters the TG/CE substrate preference of CETP and also changes the extent of nonreciprocal lipid transfer, showing the potential for externally acting agents to modify the transfer properties of CETP. Overall, these data show that the lipid transfer properties of CETP can be manipulated. Function-altering pharmaceuticals may offer a novel approach to modify CETP activity and achieve specific modifications in lipoprotein metabolism. 	Cells produce two cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) isoforms, full-length and a shorter variant produced by alternative splicing. Blocking synthesis of both isoforms disrupts lipid metabolism and storage. To further define the role of CETP in cellular lipid metabolism, we stably overexpressed full-length CETP in SW872 cells. These CETP(+) cells had several-fold higher intracellular CETP and accumulated 50% less TG due to a 26% decrease in TG synthesis and 2.5-fold higher TG turnover rate. Reduced TG synthesis was due to decreased fatty acid uptake and impaired conversion of diglyceride to TG even though diacylglycerol acyltransferase activity was normal. Sterol-regulatory element binding protein 1 mRNA levels were normal, and although PPARγ expression was reduced, the expression of several of its target genes including adipocyte triglyceride lipase, FASN, and APOE was normal. CETP(+) cells contained smaller lipid droplets, consistent with their higher levels of perilipin protein family (PLIN) 3 compared with PLIN1 and PLIN2. Intracellular CETP was mostly associated with the endoplasmic reticulum, although CETP near lipid droplets poorly colocalized with this membrane. A small pool of CETP resided in the cytoplasm, and a subfraction coisolated with lipid droplets. These data show that overexpression of full-length CETP disrupts lipid homeostasis resulting in the formation of smaller, more metabolically active lipid droplets. 	Site-specific changes in the amino acid composition of human cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) modify its preference for triglyceride (TG) versus cholesteryl ester (CE) as substrate. CETP homologs are found in many species but little is known about their activity. Here, we examined the lipid transfer properties of CETP species with 80-96% amino acid identity to human CETP. TG/CE transfer ratios for recombinant rabbit, monkey, and hamster CETPs were 1.40-, 1.44-, and 6.08-fold higher than human CETP, respectively. In transfer assays between VLDL and HDL, net transfers of CE into VLDL by human and monkey CETPs were offset by equimolar net transfers of TG toward HDL. For hamster CETP this process was not equimolar but resulted in a net flow of lipid (TG) into HDL. When assayed for the ability to transfer lipid to an acceptor particle lacking CE and TG, monkey and hamster CETPs were most effective, although all CETP species were able to promote this one-way movement of neutral lipid. We conclude that CETPs from human, monkey, rabbit, and hamster are not functionally equivalent. Most unique was hamster CETP, which strongly prefers TG as a substrate and promotes the net flow of lipid from VLDL to HDL. 	Lipid transfer inhibitor protein (LTIP) exists in both active and inactive forms. Incubation (37°C) of plasma causes LTIP to transfer from a 470 kDa inactive complex to LDL where it is active. Here, we investigate the mechanisms underlying this movement. Inhibiting LCAT or cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) reduced incubation-induced LTIP translocation by 40-50%. Blocking both LCAT and CETP completely prevented LTIP movement. Under appropriate conditions, either factor alone could drive maximum LTIP transfer to LDL. These data suggest that chemical modification of LDL, the 470 kDa complex, or both facilitate LTIP movement. To test this, LDL and the 470 kDa fraction were separately premodified by CETP and/or LCAT activity. Modification of the 470 kDa fraction had no effect on subsequent LTIP movement to native LDL. Premodification of LDL, however, induced spontaneous LTIP movement from the native 470 kDa particle to LDL. This transfer depended on the extent of LDL modification and correlated negatively with changes in the LDL phospholipid + cholesterol-to-cholesteryl ester + triglyceride ratio. We conclude that LTIP translocation is dependent on LDL lipid composition, not on its release from the inactive complex. Compositional changes that reduce the surface-to-core lipid ratio of LDL promote LTIP binding and activation.	Lipid transfer inhibitor protein (LTIP) is a regulator of cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) function. Factors affecting plasma LTIP levels are poorly understood. In humans, plasma LTIP is elevated in hypercholesterolemia. To define possible mechanisms by which hyperlipidemia modifies LTIP, we investigated the effects of hypercholesterolemic diets on plasma LTIP and mRNA levels in experimental animals. The hamster, which naturally expresses CETP, was shown to express LTIP. Hamster LTIP mRNA, exclusively detected in the liver, defined a predicted LTIP protein that is 69% homologous to human, with an isoelectric point of 4.15 and Mr = approximately 16.4 kDa. Hyperlipidemia induced by feeding hydrogenated coconut oil, cholesterol, or both lipids increased plasma LTIP mass up to 2.5-fold, with LTIP mass correlating strongly with plasma cholesterol levels. CETP mass was similarly affected by these diets. In contrast, these diets reduced LTIP hepatic mRNA levels by &gt;50%, whereas CETP mRNA was increased. Similar results for both CETP and LTIP were also observed in cholesterol-fed rabbits. In conclusion, we report in hamster and rabbit that dietary lipids regulate LTIP. Diet-induced hypercholesterolemia markedly increased plasma LTIP mass while concomitantly depressing LTIP gene expression. CETP and LTIP have distinct responses to dietary lipids.	Lipid transfer inhibitor protein (LTIP) is a physiologic regulator of cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) function. We previously reported that LTIP activity is localized to LDL, consistent with its greater inhibitory activity on this lipoprotein. With a recently described immunoassay for LTIP, we investigated whether LTIP mass is similarly distributed. Plasma fractionated by gel filtration chromatography revealed two LTIP protein peaks, one coeluting with LDL, and another of approximately 470 kDa. The 470 kDa LTIP complex had a density of 1.134 g/ml, indicating approximately 50% lipid content, and contained apolipoprotein A-I. By mass spectrometry, partially purified 470 kDa LTIP also contains apolipoproteins C-II, D, E, J, and paraoxonase 1. Unlike LDL-associated LTIP, the 470 kDa LTIP complex does not inhibit CETP activity. In normolipidemic subjects, approximately 25% of LTIP is in the LDL-associated, active form. In hypercholesterolemia,this increases to 50%, suggesting that lipoprotein composition may influence the status of LTIP activity. Incubation (37 degrees C) of normolipidemic plasma increased active, LDL-associated LTIP up to 3-fold at the expense of the inactive pool. Paraoxon inhibited this shift by 50%. Overall, these studies show that LTIP activity is controlled by its reversible incorporation into an inactive complex. This may provide for short-term fine-tuning of lipoprotein remodeling mediated by CETP.	Lipid transfer inhibitor protein (LTIP) is an important regulator of cholesteryl ester transfer protein function. We report the development of an immunoassay for LTIP and its use to quantify LTIP in plasma of varying lipid contents. A rabbit antibody against bacterially produced recombinant LTIP detected two LTIP isoforms in plasma differing in carbohydrate content. This antibody was used in a competitive, enzyme-linked immunoassay that uses partially purified LTIP bound to microtiter plates. To optimize LTIP immunoreactivity, plasma samples required preincubation in 1% Tween-20 and 0.5% Nonidet P-40. In normolipidemic plasma, LTIP averaged 83.5 microg/ml. LTIP was 31% higher in males than in females. LTIP was positively associated with HDL cholesterol in normolipidemic males but not in females. In hypertriglyceridemic males, LTIP was only 56% of control values, whereas in hypertriglyceridemic females, LTIP tended to increase. Additionally, in males with normal cholesterol and triglyceride (TG) &lt; or = 200 mg/dl, LTIP varied inversely with plasma TG. Overall, we have confirmed the negative association between plasma TG levels and LTIP previously suggested by a small data set, but now we demonstrate that this effect is seen only in males. The mechanisms underlying this gender-specific response to TG, and why LTIP and HDL levels correlate in males but not in females, remain to be determined.	Cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) transfers cholesteryl ester (CE) and triglyceride (TG) between lipoproteins in plasma. However, short term suppression of CETP biosynthesis in cells alters cellular cholesterol homeostasis, demonstrating an intracellular role for CETP as well. The consequences of chronic CETP deficiency in lipid-storing cells normally expressing CETP have not been reported. Here, SW872 adipocytes stably expressing antisense CETP cDNA and synthesizing 20% of normal CETP were created. CETP-deficient cells had 4-fold more CE but an approximately 3-fold decrease in cholesterol biosynthesis. This phenotype of cholesterol overload is consistent with the observed 45% reduction in low density lipoprotein receptor and 2.5-fold increase in ABCA1 levels. However, cholesterol mass in CETP-deficient adipocytes was actually reduced. Strikingly, CETP-deficient adipocytes stored &lt;50% of normal TG, principally reflecting reduced synthesis. The hydrolysis of cellular CE and TG in CETP-deficient cells was reduced by &gt;50%, although hydrolase/lipase activity was increased 3-fold. Notably, the incorporation of recently synthesized CE and TG into lipid storage droplets in CETP-deficient cells was just 40% of control, suggesting that these lipids are inefficiently transported to droplets where the hydrolase/lipase resides. The capacity of cellular CETP to transport CE and TG into storage droplets was directly demonstrated in vitro. Overall, chronic CETP deficiency disrupts lipid homeostasis and compromises the TG storage function of adipocytes. Inefficient CETP-mediated translocation of CE and TG from the endoplasmic reticulum to their site of storage may partially explain these defects. These studies in adipocytic cells strongly support a novel role for CETP in intracellular lipid transport and storage.	Cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) regulates human lipoprotein metabolism. Because reducing CETP increases plasma HDL, CETP inhibitors are currently being investigated for their pharmacologic value. However, complete CETP deficiency may have undesirable consequences. In contrast, based on previous studies with purified components, we hypothesized that partial CETP inhibition, which will still elevate HDL, may induce beneficial changes in plasma lipid metabolism. To address this, CETP activity in human plasma was variably inhibited with monoclonal antibody. In control plasma, VLDL to LDL lipid transfer was &gt;2-fold higher than to HDL(3) with lipid transfer to HDL(2) intermediate. However, individual lipid transfer events were uniquely sensitive to CETP suppression such that when CETP activity was inhibited by 60%, lipid transfer from VLDL to LDL, HDL(2) and HDL(3) were equal. The ratio of lipid transfers to LDL versus HDL declined linearly with CETP inhibition. In mass lipid transfer experiments, 25-50% inhibition of CETP significantly reduced lipid flux between VLDL and LDL but minimally affected cholesteryl ester (CE) loss from HDL. Complete CETP inhibition did not reduce cholesterol esterification rates but completely blocked the delivery of new CE to VLDL, whereas, 50% inhibition of CETP reduced this CE flux to VLDL by &lt;20%. Thus, inhibition of CETP by &lt;or=50% preferentially blocks lipid transfers involving LDL while largely maintaining lipid flux through HDL. These results suggest that a more beneficial therapeutic outcome may be achieved with partial, rather than extensive, CETP suppression.
Muschler, George	Biomedical Engineering	30461436	30461435	31020864	30334888	30316562	30189436	29396254	29316595	29240251	28976432	NA	NA	Purpose: There is a clinical need to better characterize tissue sources being used for stem cell therapies. This study focuses on comparison of cells and connective tissue progenitors (CTPs) derived from native human infrapatellar fatpad (IPFP), synovium (SYN), and periosteum (PERI). Materials and Methods: IPFP, SYN, PERI were harvested from twenty-eight patients undergoing arthroplasty. CTPs were quantitatively characterized using automated colony-forming-unit assay to compare total nucleated cell concentration-[Cell], cells/mg; prevalence-(PCTP), CTPs/million nucleated cells; CTP concentration-[CTP], CTPs/mg; proliferation and differentiation potential; and correlate outcomes with patient's age and gender. Results: [Cell] did not differ between IPFP, SYN, and PERI. PCTP was influenced by age and gender: patients &gt;60 years, IPFP and SYN had higher PCTP than PERI (p &lt; 0.001) and females had higher PCTP in IPFP (p &lt; 0.001) and SYN (p = 0.001) than PERI. [CTP] was influenced by age: patients &lt;50 years, SYN (p = 0.0165) and PERI (p &lt; 0.001) had higher [CTP] than IPFP; patients between 60 and 69 years, SYN (p &lt; 0.001) had higher [CTP] than PERI; patients &gt;70 years, IPFP (p = 0.006) had higher [CTP] than PERI. In patients &gt;60 years, proliferation potential of CTPs differed significantly (SYN&gt;IPFP&gt;PERI); however, differentiation potentials were comparable between all three tissue sources. Conclusion: SYN and IPFP may serve as a preferred tissue source for patients &gt;60 years, and PERI along with SYN and IPFP may serve as a preferred tissue source for patients &lt;60 years for cartilage repair. However, the heterogeneity among the CTPs in any given tissue source suggests performance-based selection might be useful to optimize cell-sourcing strategies to improve efficacy of cellular therapies for cartilage repair.	Current decisions on cellular therapies for osteoarthritis are based primarily on clinical experience or on assumptions about preferred cell sourcing. They have not been informed by rigorous standardized measurements of the chondrogenic connective-tissue progenitors (CTP-Cs) or their intrinsic diversity of chondrogenic potential. The goal of this study was to quantitatively define the CTP-Cs resident in cartilage of different grades of osteoarthritis and to compare their concentration, prevalence, and biological potential. Twenty-three patients who had varus malalignment of the knee and were scheduled to undergo elective total knee arthroplasty for idiopathic osteoarthritis and who had grade 1-2 osteoarthritis on the lateral femoral condyle and grade 3-4 osteoarthritis on the medial femoral condyle were recruited for study of the cartilage removed during surgery. CTP-Cs were assayed by a standardized colony-forming-unit assay using automated image-analysis software based on ASTM standard test method F2944-12. Cell concentration was significantly greater (p &lt; 0.001) in grade 3-4 cartilage than in grade 1-2 cartilage. The prevalence of CTP-Cs varied widely, but it trended lower in grade 3-4 cartilage than in grade 1-2 samples (p = 0.078). The biological performance of CTP-Cs from grade 1-2 and grade 3-4 cartilage was comparable. Increased cell concentration was a significant predictor of decreased CTP-C prevalence (p = 0.002). Although grade 3-4 cartilage showed fewer CTP-Cs than grade 1-2 cartilage, the range of biological performance was comparable, which suggests that either may be used as a source for potent CTP-Cs. However, the biological reason for the heterogeneity of CTP-Cs in cartilage and the biological implications of that heterogeneity are not well understood and require further study. In order to improve the efficacy of cartilage cell therapy procedures, it is key to characterize the quality and quantity of the cells and progenitors being administered. Additionally, understanding the heterogeneity in order to select appropriate subsets of populations will improve the rigor of decisions concerning cell sourcing and targeting for pharmacological and cellular therapies.	The Signature Series Symposium &quot;Cellular Therapies for Orthopaedics and Musculoskeletal Disease Proven and Unproven Therapies-Promise, Facts and Fantasy&quot; was held as a pre-meeting of the 26<sup>th</sup> International Society for Cellular Therapy (ISCT) annual congress in Montreal, Canada, May 2, 2018. This was the first ISCT program that was entirely dedicated to the advancement of cell-based therapies for musculoskeletal diseases. Cellular therapies in musculoskeletal medicine are a source of great promise and opportunity. They are also the source of public controversy, confusion and misinformation. Patients, clinicians, scientists, industry and government share a commitment to clear communication and responsible development of the field. Therefore, this symposium convened thought leaders from around the world in a forum designed to catalyze communication and collaboration to bring the greatest possible innovation and value to patients with musculoskeletal conditions.	Platelet-rich plasma (PRP) injections are often used for the treatment of knee osteoarthritis (OA), despite clinical value and cost-effectiveness not being definitely established. PRP injections are considered as a potential means of reducing pain and improving function in patients with knee OA, in the hope of delaying or avoiding the need for surgical intervention. Centers that offer PRP injections usually charge patients out of pocket and directly market services. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to quantify the current (1) prices and (2) marketed clinical efficacy of autologous PRP injections for knee OA. A prospective cross-sectional study was performed based on 286 centers identified in the United States offering PRP injections for knee OA. A total of 179 (73.4%) centers were successfully contacted via e-mail or phone, using a simulated 52-year-old male patient with knee OA. Scripted questions were asked by the simulated patient to determine the current marketed prices and clinical efficacy, either reported as &quot;good results&quot; or &quot;symptomatic improvement,&quot; claimed by each treating center. The mean price for a single unilateral knee same-day PRP injection was $714 with a standard deviation of $144 (95% confidence interval [CI]: $691-737, n = 153). The mean claim of clinical efficacy was 76% with a standard deviation of 11% (95% CI: 73.5-78.3%, n = 84). Out of the 84 clinics, 10 claimed &quot;90 to 100% efficacy,&quot; 27 claimed &quot;80 to 90%,&quot; 29 claimed &quot;70 to 80%,&quot; 9 claimed &quot;60 to 70%,&quot; 8 claimed &quot;50 to 60%,&quot; and 1 claimed &quot;40 to 60%.&quot; These findings provide a unique perspective on the PRP market for the treatment of knee OA that is valuable to physicians and health care providers in providing better education to patients on the associated costs and purported clinical benefits of PRP injections.	Connective tissue progenitors (CTPs) embody the heterogeneous stem and progenitor cell populations present in native tissue. CTPs are essential to the formation and remodeling of connective tissue and represent key targets for tissue-engineering and cell-based therapies. To better understand and characterize CTPs, we aimed to compare the (i) concentration and prevalence, (ii) early in vitro biological behavior and (iii) expression of surface-markers and transcription factors among cells derived from marrow space (MS), trabecular surface (TS), and adipose tissues (AT). Cancellous-bone and subcutaneous-adipose tissues were collected from 8 patients. Cells were isolated and cultured. Colony formation was assayed using Colonyze software based on ASTM standards. Cell concentration ([Cell]), CTP concentration ([CTP]) and CTP prevalence (PCTP) were determined. Attributes of culture-expanded cells were compared based on (i) effective proliferation rate and (ii) expression of surface-markers CD73, CD90, CD105, SSEA-4, SSEA-3, SSEA-1/CD15, Cripto-1, E-Cadherin/CD324, Ep-CAM/CD326, CD146, hyaluronan and transcription factors Oct3/4, Sox-2 and Nanog using flow cytometry. Mean [Cell], [CTP] and PCTP were significantly different between MS and TS samples (P = 0.03, P = 0.008 and P= 0.0003), respectively. AT-derived cells generated the highest mean total cell yield at day 6 of culture-4-fold greater than TS and more than 40-fold greater than MS per million cells plated. TS colonies grew with higher mean density than MS colonies (290 ± 11 versus 150 ± 11 cell per mm<sup>2</sup>; P = 0.0002). Expression of classical-mesenchymal stromal cell (MSC) markers was consistently recorded (&gt;95%) from all tissue sources, whereas all the other markers were highly variable. The prevalence and biological potential of CTPs are different between patients and tissue sources and lack variation in classical MSC markers. Other markers are more likely to discriminate differences between cell populations in biological performance. Understanding the underlying reasons for variation in the concentration, prevalence, marker expression and biological potential of CTPs between patients and source tissues and determining the means of managing this variation will contribute to the rational development of cell-based clinical diagnostics and targeted cell-based therapies.	The orthopedic field has experienced several major practice-changing pivotal shifts in the past several decades, such as the invention and application of the arthroscope or the implementation and advancement of joint arthroplasties. Most of these previous breakthroughs have focused on surgical techniques and devices. However, the next major advance in the field is likely to be related to biologic treatments. Although still in its early stage of development, orthopedic regenerative medicine, including cellular therapies, represents a great opportunity, since we are only beginning to understand their biological potential. The main challenge in this pathway is to translate the promising results obtained by basic scientists to clinical practice. This work reviewed the market and clinical evidence, as well as future perspectives, concerning cellular therapies in orthopedics.	Cell-based therapies development for the treatment of osteoarthritis (OA) requires an understanding of the disease progression and attributes of the cells resident in cartilage. This study focused on quantitative assessment of the concentration and biological potential of stem and progenitor cells resident in different zones of cartilage displaying macroscopic Outerbridge grade 1-2 OA, and their correlation with OA progression based on established histologic scoring system. Lateral femoral condyles were collected from 15 patients with idiopathic OA and varus knees undergoing total knee arthroplasty. Superficial(Csp , top ∼ 500 µm) and deep cartilage(Cdp ) was separated. Chondrogenic Connective Tissue Progenitors (CTP-C) were assayed by standardized Colony-Forming-Unit assay using automated image analysis (Colonyze<sup>TM</sup> ) based on ASTM standard F-2944-12. Cell concentration (cells/mg) was significantly greater in Csp (median: 7,000; range: 3,440-17,600) than Cdp (median: 5,340; range: 3,393-9,660), p = 0.039. Prevalence (CTPs/million cells) was not different between Csp (median: 1,274; range: 0-3,898) and Cdp (median:1,365; range:0-6,330), p = 0.42. In vitro performance of CTP-C progeny varied widely within and between patients, manifest by variation in colony size and morphology. Mean histopathological Mankin score was 4.7 (SD = 1.2), representing mild to moderate OA. Tidemark breach by blood vessels was associated with lower Csp cell concentration (p = 0.02). Matrix degradation was associated with lower Cdp cell and CTP-C concentration (p = 0.015 and p = 0.095, respectively), independent of articular surface changes. These findings suggest that the initiation of OA may occur in either superficial or deep zones. The pathological changes affect CTP-Cs in Csp and Cdp cartilage zones differently. The heterogeneity among the available CTP-Cs in Csp and Cdp suggests performance-based selection to optimize cell-sourcing strategies for therapy. © 2017 Orthopaedic Research Society. Published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Orthop Res 36:1728-1738, 2018.	The rational design and optimization of tissue engineering strategies for cell-based therapy requires a baseline understanding of the concentration and prevalence of osteogenic progenitor cell populations in the source tissues. The aim of this study was to (1) define the efficiency of, and variation among individuals in, bone marrow aspiration as a means of osteogenic connective tissue progenitor (CTP-O) harvest compared with harvest from iliac cancellous bone, and (2) determine the location of CTP-Os within native cancellous bone and their distribution between the marrow-space and trabecular-surface tissue compartments. Eight 2-mL bone marrow aspiration (BMA) samples and one 7-mm transcortical biopsy sample were obtained from the anterior iliac crest of 33 human subjects. Two cell populations were obtained from the iliac cancellous bone (ICB) sample. The ICB sample was placed into αMEM (alpha-minimal essential medium) with antibiotic-antimycotic and minced into small pieces (1 to 2 mm in diameter) with a sharp osteotome. Cells that could be mechanically disassociated from the ICB sample were defined as marrow-space (IC-MS) cells, and cells that were disassociated only after enzymatic digestion were defined as trabecular-surface (IC-TS) cells. The 3 sources of bone and marrow-derived cells were compared on the basis of cellularity and the concentration and prevalence of CTP-Os through colony-forming unit (CFU) analysis. Large variation was seen among patients with respect to cell and CTP-O yield from the IC-MS, IC-TS, and BMA samples and in the relative distribution of CTP-Os between the IC-MS and IC-TS fractions. The CTP-O prevalence was highest in the IC-TS fraction, which was 11.4-fold greater than in the IC-MS fraction (p &lt; 0.0001) and 1.7-fold greater than in the BMA fraction. However, the median concentration of CTP-Os in the ICB (combining MS and TS fractions) was only 3.04 ± 1.1-fold greater than that in BMA (4,265 compared with 1,402 CTP/mL; p = 0.00004). Bone marrow aspiration of a 2-mL volume at a given needle site is an effective means of harvesting CTP-Os, albeit diluted with peripheral blood. However, the median concentration of CTP-Os is 3-fold less than from native iliac cancellous bone. The distribution of CTP-Os between the IC-MS and IC-TS fractions varies widely among patients. Bone marrow aspiration is an effective means of harvesting CTP-Os but is associated with dilution with peripheral blood. Overall, we found that 63.5% of all CTP-Os within iliac cancellous bone resided on the trabecular surface; however, 48% of the patients had more CTP-Os contributed by the IC-MS than the IC-TS fraction.
Nagy, Laura	Inflammation and Immunity	31009094	30710579	30294325	29597356	29374837	29142263	28647568	28257601	28165624	28087985	Macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF), a pluripotent immune regulator, is an emerging mediator in alcohol-related liver disease (ALD). MIF is associated with ALD progression through its chemokine- and cytokine-like activities. Mechanistic studies into the role of MIF in ethanol (EtOH)-induced liver injury were performed in Mif<sup>-/-</sup> mice and in C57BL/6J mice treated with a small-molecule MIF antagonist, MIF098, after Gao-Binge (acute-on-chronic) EtOH feeding, an EtOH feeding protocol associated with hepatic neutrophilia and induction of the unfolded protein response (UPR). The MIF axis, for example, MIF and MIF receptors invariant polypeptide of major histocompatibility complex, class II antigen-associated (CD74), CXCR2, CXCR4, and CXCR7, was enhanced in the livers of alcoholic hepatitis (AH) patients as compared to healthy controls. Mif<sup>-/-</sup> mice were protected from hepatocellular injury after Gao-Binge feeding, independent of neutrophilia and inflammation, but were associated with the UPR. Interestingly, the UPR signature in AH patients and in mice following Gao-Binge feeding was biased toward cell death with increased expression of pro-cell death CCAAT-enhancer-binding protein homologous protein (CHOP) and decreased prosurvival GRP78. The UPR and liver injury 6 hours after binge were prevented both in Mif<sup>-/-</sup> mice and in MIF098-treated mice. However, both MIF interventions led to increased liver injury and exacerbated the hepatic UPR 9 hours after binge. Induction of upstream UPR signaling and expression of CHOP protein by thapsigargin in alpha mouse liver 12 hepatocytes were blunted by coexposure to MIF098, directly connecting MIF to UPR in hepatocytes. The current study revealed that, in addition to its cytokine/chemokine functions, MIF is an upstream regulator of UPR in response to EtOH feeding in mice. Importantly, both MIF and UPR can either protect or contribute to liver injury, dependent upon the stage or severity of EtOH-induced liver injury.	Interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) is a transcription factor mediating antiviral responses, yet recent evidence indicates that IRF3 also has critical non-transcriptional functions, including activating RIG-I-like receptors-induced IRF-3-mediated pathway of apoptosis (RIPA) and restricting activity of NF-κB. Using a novel murine model expressing only non-transcriptional IRF3 activity (Irf3<sup>S1/S1</sup>), we tested the hypothesis that non-transcriptional functions of IRF3 modulate innate immune responses in the Gao-binge (acute-on-chronic) model of alcohol-related liver disease. IRF3 and IRF3-mediated signals were analysed in liver samples from 5 patients transplanted for alcoholic hepatitis and 5 healthy controls. C57BL/6, Irf3<sup>-/-</sup> and Irf3<sup>S1/S1</sup> mice were exposed to Gao-binge ethanol-induced liver injury. IRF3-mediated RIPA was investigated in cultured macrophages. Phospho-IRF3 and IRF3-mediated signals were elevated in livers of patients with alcoholic hepatitis. In C57BL/6 mice, Gao-binge ethanol exposure activated IRF3 signaling and resulted in hepatocellular injury. Indicators of liver injury were differentially impacted by Irf3 genotype. Irf3<sup>-/-</sup>, but not Irf3<sup>S1/S1</sup>, mice were protected from steatosis, elevated alanine/aspartate aminotransferase levels and inflammatory cytokine expression. In contrast, neutrophil accumulation and endoplasmic reticulum stress were independent of genotype. Protection from Gao-binge injury in Irf3<sup>-/-</sup> mice was associated with an increased ratio of Ly6C<sup>low</sup> (restorative) to Ly6C<sup>high</sup> (inflammatory) cells compared to C57BL/6 and Irf3<sup>S1/S1</sup> mice. Reduced ratios of Ly6C<sup>low</sup>/Ly6C<sup>high</sup> in C57BL/6 and Irf3<sup>S1/S1</sup> mice were associated with increased apoptosis in the Ly6C<sup>low</sup> population in response to Gao-binge. Activation of primary macrophage cultures with Poly (I:C) induced translocation of IRF3 to the mitochondria, where it associated with Bax and activated caspases 3 and 9, processes indicative of activation of the RIPA pathway. Taken together, these data identify that the non-transcriptional function of IRF3 plays an important role in modulating the innate immune environment in response to Gao-binge ethanol exposure, via regulation of immune cell apoptosis. Activation of the innate immune system contributes to inflammation in the progression of alcohol-related liver disease, as well as to the resolution of injury. Here we show that the protein IRF3 modulates the innate immune environment of the liver in a mouse model of alcoholic hepatitis. It does this by increasing the apoptotic cell death of immune cells that promote the resolution of injury.	Background and aims: Chronic ethanol exposure results in inflammation in adipose tissue; this response is associated with activation of complement as well as the development of alcohol-related liver disease (ALD). Adipose communicates with other organs, including liver, via the release of soluble mediators, such as adipokines and cytokines, characterized as the &quot;adipose secretome.&quot; Here we investigated the role of the anaphaylatoxin receptors C3aR and C5aR1 in the development of adipose tissue inflammation and regulation of the adipose secretome in murine ALD (mALD). Methods: Wild-type C57BL/6 (WT), C3aR<sup>-/-</sup>, and C5aR1<sup>-/-</sup> mice were fed Lieber-DeCarli ethanol diet for 25 days (6% v/v, 32% kcal) or isocaloric control diets; indicators of inflammation and injury were assessed in gonadal adipose tissue. The adipose secretome was characterized in isolated adipocytes and stromal vascular cells. Results: Ethanol feeding increased the expression of adipokines, chemokines and leukocyte markers in gonadal adipose tissue from WT mice; C3aR<sup>-/-</sup> were partially protected while C5aR1<sup>-/-</sup> mice were completely protected. In contrast, induction of CYP2E1 and accumulation of TUNEL-positive cells in adipose in response to ethanol feeding was independent of genotype. Bone marrow chimeras, generated with WT and C5aR1<sup>-/-</sup> mice, revealed C5aR1 expression on non-myeloid cells, likely to be adipocytes, contributed to ethanol-induced adipose inflammation. Chronic ethanol feeding regulated both the quantity and distribution of adipokines secreted from adipocytes in a C5aR1-dependent mechanism. In WT mice, chronic ethanol feeding induced a predominant release of pro-inflammatory adipokines from adipocytes, while the adipose secretome from C5aR1<sup>-/-</sup> mice was characterized by an anti-inflammatory/protective profile. Further, the cargo of adipocyte-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) was distinct from the soluble secretome; in WT EVs, ethanol increased the abundance of pro-inflammatory mediators while EV cargo from C5aR1<sup>-/-</sup> adipocytes contained a greater diversity and more robust expression of adipokines. Conclusions: C3aR and C5aR1 are potent regulators of ethanol-induced adipose inflammation in mALD. C5aR1 modulated the impact of chronic ethanol on the content of the adipose secretome, as well as influencing the cargo of an extensive array of adipokines from adipocyte-derived EVs. Taken together, our data demonstrate that C5aR1 contributes to ethanol-mediated changes in the adipose secretome, likely contributing to intra-organ injury in ALD.	Complement plays a crucial role in microbial defense and clearance of apoptotic cells. Emerging evidence suggests complement is an important contributor to alcoholic liver disease. While complement component 1, Q subcomponent (C1q)-dependent complement activation contributes to ethanol-induced liver injury, the role of the alternative pathway in ethanol-induced injury is unknown. Activation of complement via the classical and alternative pathways was detected in alcoholic hepatitis patients. Female C57BL/6J [wild type (WT)], C1q-deficient ( C1qa<sup>-/-</sup>, lacking classical pathway activation), complement protein 4-deficient ( C4<sup>-/-</sup>, lacking classical and lectin pathway activation), complement factor D-deficient ( FD<sup>-/-</sup>, lacking alternative pathway activation), and C1qa/FD<sup>-/-</sup> (lacking classical and alternative pathway activation) mice were fed an ethanol-containing liquid diet or pair-fed control diet for 4 or 25 days. Following chronic ethanol exposure, liver injury, steatosis, and proinflammatory cytokine expression were increased in WT but not C1qa<sup>-/-</sup>, C4<sup>-/-</sup>, or C1qa/FD<sup>-/-</sup> mice. In contrast, liver injury, steatosis, and proinflammatory mediators were robustly increased in ethanol-fed FD<sup>-/-</sup> mice compared with WT mice. Complement activation, assessed by hepatic accumulation of C1q and complement protein 3 (C3) cleavage products (C3b/iC3b/C3c), was evident in livers of WT mice in response to both short-term and chronic ethanol. While C1q accumulated in ethanol-fed FD<sup>-/-</sup> mice (short term and chronic), C3 cleavage products were detected after short-term but not chronic ethanol. Consistent with impaired complement activation, chronic ethanol induced the accumulation of apoptotic cells and fibrogenic responses in the liver of FD<sup>-/-</sup> mice. These data highlight the protective role of complement factor D (FD) and suggest that FD-dependent amplification of complement is an adaptive response that promotes hepatic healing and recovery in response to chronic ethanol. NEW &amp; NOTEWORTHY Complement, a component of the innate immune system, is an important pathophysiological contributor to ethanol-induced liver injury. We have identified a novel role for factor D, a component of the alternative pathway, in protecting the liver from ethanol-induced inflammation, accumulation of apoptotic hepatocytes, and profibrotic responses. These data indicate a dual role of complement with regard to inflammatory and protective responses and suggest that accumulation of apoptotic cells impairs hepatic healing/recovery during alcoholic liver disease.	Both the innate and adaptive immune systems are critical for the maintenance of healthy liver function. Immune activity maintains the tolerogenic capacity of the liver, modulates hepatocellular response to various stresses, and orchestrates appropriate cellular repair and turnover. However, in response to heavy, chronic alcohol exposure, the finely tuned balance of pro- and anti-inflammatory functions in the liver is disrupted, leading to a state of chronic inflammation in the liver. Over time, this non-resolving inflammatory response contributes to the progression of alcoholic liver disease (ALD). Here we review the contributions of the cellular components of the immune system to the progression of ALD, as well as the pathophysiological roles for soluble and circulating mediators of immunity, including cytokines, chemokines, complement, and extracellular vesicles, in ALD. Finally, we compare the role of the innate immune response in health and disease in the liver to our growing understanding of the role of neuroimmunity in the development and maintenance of a healthy central nervous system, as well as the progression of neuroinflammation.	TLR4 signaling in hepatic macrophages is increased after chronic ethanol feeding. Treatment of hepatic macrophages after chronic ethanol feeding with small-specific sized hyaluronic acid 35 (HA35) normalizes TLR4 signaling; however, the mechanisms for HA35 action are not completely understood. Here we used Next Generation Sequencing of microRNAs to identify negative regulators of TLR4 signaling reciprocally modulated by ethanol and HA35 in hepatic macrophages. Eleven microRNAs were up-regulated by ethanol; only 4 microRNAs, including miR291b, were decreased by HA35. Bioinformatics analysis identified Tollip, a negative regulator of TLR4, as a target of miR291b. Tollip expression was decreased in hepatic macrophages from ethanol-fed rats, but treatment with HA35 or transfection with a miR291b hairpin inhibitor restored Tollip expression and normalized TLR4-stimulated TNFα expression. In peripheral blood monocytes isolated from patients with alcoholic hepatitis, expression of TNFα mRNA was robustly increased in response to challenge with lipopolysaccharide. Importantly, pre-treatment with HA35 reduced TNFα expression by more than 50%. Taken together, we have identified miR291b as a critical miRNA up-regulated by ethanol. Normalization of the miR291b → Tollip pathway by HA35 ameliorated ethanol-induced sensitization of TLR4 signaling in macrophages/monocytes, suggesting that HA35 may be a novel therapeutic agent in the treatment of ALD.	Macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) is a multi-potent cytokine that contributes to the inflammatory response to injury. MIF is expressed by multiple cell types; however, the cellular source and actions of MIF in alcoholic liver disease (ALD) are not well known. Here we tested the hypothesis that non-myeloid cells, specifically hepatocytes, are an important cellular source of MIF in ALD. MIF expression was measured in HuH7 and differentiated THP-1 cells in response to ethanol. Ethanol-induced liver injury was assessed in C57BL/6 (WT) and Mif<sup>-/-</sup> bone marrow chimeras. MIF was measured in peripheral and suprahepatic serum, as well as visualized by immunohistochemistry in liver biopsies, from patients with alcoholic hepatitis (AH). HuH7 hepatocytes, but not THP-1 macrophages, released MIF in response to ethanol challenge in culture. In chimeric mice expressing MIF in non-myeloid cells (Mif<sup>-/-</sup>→WT), chronic ethanol feeding increased ALT/AST, hepatic steatosis, and expression of cytokine/chemokine mRNA. In contrast, chimeric mice not expressing MIF in non-myeloid cells (WT→Mif<sup>-/-</sup>) were protected from ethanol-induced liver injury. Immunohistochemical staining of liver biopsies from patients with AH revealed a predominant localization of MIF to hepatocytes. Interestingly, the concentration of MIF in suprahepatic serum, but not peripheral serum, was positively correlated with clinical indicators of disease severity and with an increased risk of mortality in patients with AH. Taken together, these data provide evidence that hepatocyte-derived MIF is critical in the pathogenesis of ALD in mice and likely contributes to liver injury in patients with AH. Lay summary: Alcoholic liver disease is a major cause of preventable mortality worldwide, and lacks specific pharmacological therapies. Recent studies have recognized that macrophage migration inhibitor factor (MIF) has a critical role in the inflammatory response to liver damage. However, the cells that produce this protein are still unknown. Our present findings reveal that hepatocytes, the main cell type in the liver, are primarily responsible for MIF production in response to alcohol, which promotes liver injury. Our study suggests that drugs inhibiting MIF production could be beneficial in treating patients with liver disease due to excessive alcohol consumption.	Increased inflammatory signaling by Kupffer cells contributes to alcoholic liver disease (ALD). Here we investigated the impact of small, specific-sized hyaluronic acid of 35 kD (HA35) on ethanol-induced sensitization of Kupffer cells, as well as ethanol-induced liver injury in mice. Unbiased analysis of microRNA (miRNA) expression in Kupffer cells identified miRNAs regulated by both ethanol and HA35. Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)-mediated signaling was assessed in primary cultures of Kupffer cells from ethanol- and pair-fed rats after treatment with HA35. Female C57BL6/J mice were fed ethanol or pair-fed control diets and treated or not with HA35. TLR4 signaling was increased in Kupffer cells by ethanol; this sensitization was normalized by ex vivo treatment with HA35. Next generation sequencing of Kupffer cell miRNA identified miRNA 181b-3p (miR181b-3p) as sensitive to both ethanol and HA35. Importin α5, a protein involved in p65 translocation to the nucleus, was identified as a target of miR181b-3p; importin α5 protein was increased in Kupffer cells from ethanol-fed rats, but decreased by HA35 treatment. Overexpression of miR181b-3p decreased importin α5 expression and normalized lipopolysaccharide-stimulated tumor necrosis factor α expression in Kupffer cells from ethanol-fed rats. In a mouse model of ALD, ethanol feeding decreased miR181b-3p in liver and increased expression of importin α5 in nonparenchymal cells. Treatment with HA35 normalized these changes and also protected mice from ethanol-induced liver and intestinal injury. miR181b-3p is dynamically regulated in Kupffer cells and mouse liver in response to ethanol and treatment with HA35. miR181b-3p modulates expression of importin α5 and sensitivity of TLR4-mediated signaling. This study identifies a miR181b-3p-importin α5 axis in regulating inflammatory signaling pathways in hepatic macrophages. (Hepatology 2017;66:602-615).	Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) is critical for ethanol (EtOH)-induced liver injury. TLR4 signaling is mediated by 2 proximal adaptor molecules: myeloid differentiation primary response protein (MyD88) and TLR-domain-containing adaptor-inducing interferon-β (TRIF). Studies utilizing global knockouts of MyD88 and TRIF identified a predominant role for TRIF signaling in the progression of EtOH-induced liver injury. In contrast, IL-1 receptor, which signals solely via the MyD88 pathway, is also known to mediate EtOH-induced liver injury. We postulated that a cell-specific role for MyD88 in myeloid cells might explain these apparently discrepant roles of MyD88. Here we made use of myeloid-specific MyD88-deficient (MyD88<sup>LysM-</sup><sup>KO</sup> ) mice generated by crossing LysM-CRE mice with MyD88<sup>fl/fl</sup> mice to test this hypothesis. MyD88<sup>LysM-</sup><sup>KO</sup> and littermate controls were fed a Lieber-DeCarli EtOH-containing diet or pair-fed control diets for 25 days. Littermate control, but not MyD88<sup>LysM-</sup><sup>KO</sup> , mice developed early stages of EtOH-induced liver injury including elevated plasma alanine aminotransferase and increased hepatic triglycerides. Lobular inflammation and expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines/chemokines was increased in control but not MyD88<sup>LysM-</sup><sup>KO</sup> . Further, EtOH-induced inflammasome activation, indicated by the presence of cleaved caspase-1 and mature IL-1β protein, was also ameliorated in livers of MyD88<sup>LysM-</sup><sup>KO</sup> mice. In contrast, chronic EtOH-induced apoptosis, assessed via TUNEL staining, was independent of myeloid-MyD88 expression. Collectively, these data demonstrate a cell-specific role for MyD88 in the development of chronic EtOH-induced liver injury. While MyD88<sup>LysM-</sup><sup>KO</sup> still exhibited hepatocellular apoptosis in response to chronic EtOH, the absence of MyD88 on myeloid cells prevented the development of hepatic steatosis and inflammation.	Impaired gut-liver axis is a potential factor contributing to alcoholic liver disease. Ethanol depletes intestinal integrity and causes gut dysbiosis. Butyrate, a fermentation byproduct of gut microbiota, is altered negatively following chronic ethanol exposure. This study aimed to determine whether prophylactic tributyrin could protect the intestinal barrier and liver in mice during combined chronic-binge ethanol exposure. C57BL/6J mice exposed to 5% v/v ethanol-containing diet for 10 days received a single ethanol gavage (5 g/kg) 9 h before euthanasia. Control mice were isocalorically pair-fed maltose dextrin for ethanol. Diets were supplemented (5 mM) with tributyrin or glycerol. Intestine and liver disease activity was assessed histologically. Protein and mRNA expression of tight junction (TJ) proteins, toll-like receptors, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha were assessed. Caco-2 monolayers with or without ethanol exposure and/or sodium butyrate were used to test butyrate's direct effects on intestinal integrity. Chronic-binge ethanol feeding impaired intestinal TJ protein co-localization staining; however, tributyrin co-treatment mitigated these effects. Ethanol depleted TJ and transepithelial electrical resistance in Caco-2 monolayers, but butyrate co-treatment reduced these effects. Hepatic toll-like receptor mRNA expression and tumor necrosis factor-alpha protein expression was induced by ethanol; however, the response was significantly dampened in mice co-treated with tributyrin. Tributyrin altered localization of both neutrophils and single hepatocyte death: Leukocytes and apoptotic hepatocytes localized predominantly around the portal tract in ethanol-only treated mice, whereas localization predominated around the central vein in ethanol-tributyrin mice. Prophylactic tributyrin supplementation mitigated effects of combined chronic-binge ethanol exposure on disruption of intestinal TJ localization and intestinal permeability and liver injury.
Nowacki, Amy	Quantitative Health Sciences	28937359	26195576	25586325	23940836	23565103	20857339	30016197	30914495	30789459	30673077	NA	Autologous adipose injection (AAI) is a recognized method for vocal fold augmentation. The study's purpose is to explore short- and long-term outcomes of AAI. Retrospective chart review of 43 patients undergoing AAI was performed; patient perception of outcome, Voice Handicap Index (VHI), maximum phonatory time (MPT), and disposition were evaluated. Over 5 years, 43 AAI patients had documented postoperative follow-up (25 paralysis, 8 paresis, 9 bowing/presbylarynges, and 5 scar/sulci). Mean follow-up was 32 weeks. There was gradual patient loss to follow-up. Thirty-nine of 40 (98%) had patient-reported improvement at 6 weeks, 28 of 34 (82%) had improvement at 2 to 6 months, with 10 of 12 (83%) sustaining their improvement for &gt;1 year. Significant improvement in mean VHI was observed at 4 to 6 weeks (mean reduction, 26; P &lt; .0001) and 2 to 6 months (mean reduction, 23; P &lt; .0001). Improvement in mean MPT was observed at 4 to 6 weeks (mean increase, 8 s; P &lt; .0001), 2 to 6 months (6 s; P = .007), and &gt;1 year (4 s; P = .03). Eight patients went on to medialization laryngoplasty. AAI successfully augments vocal folds in short-term outcomes with some gradual decrease in effectiveness. Although patient attrition limited conclusions, objective long-term benefit may occur in &gt;50% of patients.	Response-adaptive randomization (RAR) offers clinical investigators benefit by modifying the treatment allocation probabilities to optimize the ethical, operational, or statistical performance of the trial. Delayed primary outcomes and their effect on RAR have been studied in the literature; however, the incorporation of surrogate outcomes has not been fully addressed. We explore the benefits and limitations of surrogate outcome utilization in RAR in the context of acute stroke clinical trials. We propose a novel surrogate-primary (S-P) replacement algorithm where a patient's surrogate outcome is used in the RAR algorithm only until their primary outcome becomes available to replace it. Computer simulations investigate the effect of both the delay in obtaining the primary outcome and the underlying surrogate and primary outcome distributional discrepancies on complete randomization, standard RAR and the S-P replacement algorithm methods. Results show that when the primary outcome is delayed, the S-P replacement algorithm reduces the variability of the treatment allocation probabilities and achieves stabilization sooner. Additionally, the S-P replacement algorithm benefit proved to be robust in that it preserved power and reduced the expected number of failures across a variety of scenarios.	Background. Propensity score usage seems to be growing in popularity leading researchers to question the possible role of propensity scores in prediction modeling, despite the lack of a theoretical rationale. It is suspected that such requests are due to the lack of differentiation regarding the goals of predictive modeling versus causal inference modeling. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to formally examine the effect of propensity scores on predictive performance. Our hypothesis is that a multivariable regression model that adjusts for all covariates will perform as well as or better than those models utilizing propensity scores with respect to model discrimination and calibration. Methods. The most commonly encountered statistical scenarios for medical prediction (logistic and proportional hazards regression) were used to investigate this research question. Random cross-validation was performed 500 times to correct for optimism. The multivariable regression models adjusting for all covariates were compared with models that included adjustment for or weighting with the propensity scores. The methods were compared based on three predictive performance measures: (1) concordance indices; (2) Brier scores; and (3) calibration curves. Results. Multivariable models adjusting for all covariates had the highest average concordance index, the lowest average Brier score, and the best calibration. Propensity score adjustment and inverse probability weighting models without adjustment for all covariates performed worse than full models and failed to improve predictive performance with full covariate adjustment. Conclusion. Propensity score techniques did not improve prediction performance measures beyond multivariable adjustment. Propensity scores are not recommended if the analytical goal is pure prediction modeling. 	Assessment is such an integral part of the educational system that we rarely reflect on its value and impact. Portfolios have gained in popularity, but much attention has emphasized the end-user and portfolio assessment. Here we focus on the portfolio creator (the student) and examine whether their educational needs are met with such an assessment method. This study aims to investigate how assessment practices influence classroom performance and the learning experience of the student in a graduate education setting. Studied were 33 medical students at the Cleveland Clinic Lerner College of Medicine of Case Western Reserve University, a program utilizing a portfolio-based system. The students may elect to simultaneously enroll in a Masters program; however, these programs employ traditional letter grades. Thus creating a unique opportunity to assess 25 portfolio only (P) students and 8 portfolio and grade (PG) students concurrently taking a course that counts for both programs. Classroom performance was measured via a comprehensive evaluation where the PG students scored modestly better (median total scores, 72% P vs. 76% PG). Additionally, a survey was conducted to gain insight into student's perspective on how assessment method impacts the learning experience. The students in the PG group (those receiving a grade) reported increased stress but greater affirmation and self-assurance regarding their knowledge and skill mastery. Incorporation of such affirmation remains a challenge for portfolio-based systems and an area for investigation and improvement.	Increasingly, the goal of many studies is to determine if new therapies have equivalent or noninferior efficacies to the ones currently in use. These studies are called equivalence/noninferiority studies, and the statistical methods for their analysis require only simple modifications to the traditional hypotheses testing framework. Nevertheless, important and subtle issues arise with the application of such methods. This article describes the concepts and statistical methods involved in testing equivalence/noninferiority. The aim is to enable the clinician to understand and critically assess the growing number of articles utilizing such methods.	Objective Unexplained chronic cough (UCC) is a perplexing condition treated with neuromodulators. Although previous literature describes the effectiveness of neuromodulators, there is little on the development of tachyphylaxis or dependence to neuromodulators over time. Our objective is to capture the experience of a large cohort of patients with UCC over an extended period, looking for these 2 phenomena. Study Design Case series with chart review. Setting Tertiary care hospital. Subjects and Methods We performed a retrospective review of patients diagnosed with UCC from 2010 to 2014. Patient outcomes were measured through percentage improvement scores. Treatment failures were attributed to no benefit, intolerable side effects, or tachyphylaxis. Tachyphylaxis was defined as the need for higher doses of medication following diminishing therapeutic benefit, while dependence was defined as a failure to stop therapy following attempted de-escalation or resurgence following drug cessation. Results Sixty-eight patients were included in the study. Tachyphylaxis was observed among 35% of patients while dependence was observed among 27% of successfully treated patients, together effecting &gt;50% of the cohort. Sixty-eight percent of patients ultimately experienced successful treatment with neuromodulators, demonstrating strikingly distinct responses to different neuromodulator drug classes. Conclusion Tachyphylaxis and dependence occur frequently during UCC treatment and have a major impact on treatment outcomes. Patients sometimes demonstrate distinct responses to different neuromodulator classes. The majority of patients will experience successful treatment for their cough, although several trials may be required.	Alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency is frequently underrecognized. Individuals with symptoms often experience long diagnostic delays. Although a delayed diagnosis is logically presumed to be associated with adverse effects, confirmatory evidence that a delay in diagnosis confers harm is sparse. The current study characterized the association between a delayed diagnosis and the clinical status at the time of diagnosis. Patients with newly diagnosed severe deficiency of alpha-1 antitrypsin received questionnaires that assessed self-reported diagnostic delay, the St George Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ) and COPD Assessment Test. Results of spirometry were retrieved and the relationship between the diagnostic delay interval and FEV1% predicted, SGRQ, and COPD Assessment Test were assessed. Forty subjects were recruited (31 with PI*ZZ, 9 with PI*SZ). Values for FEV1% predicted, SGRQ, and COPD Assessment Test were available for 17, 40, and 32 subjects, respectively. The relationship between the diagnostic delay interval and all outcomes was directionally consistent with an adverse impact of increasing diagnostic delay. For each additional year of diagnostic delay, the subject's FEV1% predicted decreased by 0.3% (P = .66), The SGRQ Total score increased by 1.6 points (P &lt; .001), and the COPD Assessment Test score increased by 0.7 points (P = .004). The results of this analysis were consistent with a delayed diagnosis of alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency being associated with worse COPD-related symptoms and functional status, and with a trend toward worsened air-flow obstruction. Given that alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency is associated with accelerated emphysema progression, these findings underscore the importance of early detection of alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency and reinforce guidelines that endorse alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency testing in all adults with fixed air-flow obstruction and first-degree relatives of individuals with severe deficiency of alpha-1 antitrypsin.	Beginning early in childhood, patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) are at risk of life-threatening and debilitating health events. Despite the high morbidity and mortality of this disease, hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT), a curative treatment for SCD, remains underutilized. In the literature there is a paucity of data concerning medical decision maker (MDM) awareness of HCT as a treatment option for SCD. The objective of this study was to estimate the proportion of parents/guardians of children with SCD who are aware of HCT as a treatment option, and to identify the demographic factors associated with knowledge of this therapy's curative potential. Between November 2015 and December 2016, 327 parents/guardians were surveyed across 4 clinical sites in 3 Midwestern US cities. Although 82% of parents/guardians had heard of HCT in the past and 78% were aware of the therapy's curative potential, nearly half indicated that they did not know whether HCT could specifically cure their child of the disease. Respondents who had discussed HCT with their child's physician had 5 times higher odds of being aware of HCT's curative potential than those who had not. These findings suggest that additional efforts to enhance MDM knowledge of HCT as well as shared decision making in the use of this therapy, is warranted.	Risk factors for the development of skin cancer after solid-organ transplant can inform clinical care, but data on these risk factors are limited. To study the association between HLA antigen mismatch and skin cancer incidence after solid-organ transplant. This retrospective cohort study is a secondary analysis of the multicenter Transplant Skin Cancer Network study of 10 649 adults who underwent a primary solid-organ transplant between January 1, 2003, and December 31, 2003, or between January 1, 2008, and December 31, 2008. These participants were identified through the Scientific Registry of Transplant Recipients standard analysis files, which contain data collected mostly by the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network. Participants were matched to skin cancer outcomes by medical record review. This study was conducted from August 1, 2016, to July 31, 2017. The primary outcome was time to diagnosis of posttransplant skin cancer, including squamous cell carcinoma, melanoma, and Merkel cell carcinoma. The HLA antigen mismatch was calculated based on the 2016 Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network guidelines. Risk of skin cancer was analyzed using a multivariate Cox proportional hazards regression model. In total, 10 649 organ transplant recipients (6776 men [63.6%], with a mean [SD] age of 51 [12] years) contributed 59 923 years of follow-up. For each additional mismatched allele, a 7% to 8% reduction in skin cancer risk was found (adjusted hazard ratio [HR], 0.93; 95% CI, 0.87-0.99; P = .01). Subgroup analysis found the protective effect of HLA antigen mismatch to be statistically significant in lung (adjusted HR, 0.70; 95% CI, 0.56-0.87; P = .001) and heart (adjusted HR, 0.75; 95% CI, 0.60-0.93; P = .008) transplant recipients but not for recipients of liver, kidney, or pancreas. The degree of HLA-DR mismatch, but not HLA-A or HLA-B mismatch, was the most statistically significant for skin cancer risk (adjusted HR, 0.85; 95% CI, 0.74-0.97; P = .01). The HLA antigen mismatch appears to be associated with reductions in the risk of skin cancer after solid-organ transplant among heart and lung transplant recipients; this finding suggests that HLA antigen mismatch activates the tumor surveillance mechanisms that protect against skin cancer in transplant recipients and that skin cancer risk may be higher in patients who received a well-matched organ.
O'Connor, Christine	Genomic Medicine Institute	30647114	30127279	24987098	24639223	30405048	30089702	29237840	24599990	22761372	25220471	Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) is a ubiquitous pathogen that undergoes latency in cells of the hematopoietic compartment, although the mechanisms underlying establishment and maintenance of latency remain elusive. We previously reported that the HCMV-encoded G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) homolog US28 is required for successful latent infection. We now show that US28 protein (pUS28) provided in trans complements the US28Δ lytic phenotype in myeloid cells, suggesting that sustained US28 expression is necessary for long-term latency. Furthermore, expression of pUS28 at the time of infection represses transcription from the major immediate early promoter (MIEP) within 24 h. However, this repression is only maintained in the presence of continual pUS28 expression provided in trans Our data also reveal that pUS28-mediated signaling attenuates both expression and phosphorylation of cellular fos (c-fos), an AP-1 transcription factor subunit, to repress MIEP-driven transcription. AP-1 binds to the MIEP and promotes lytic replication, and in line with this we find that US28Δ infection results in an increase in AP-1 binding to the MIEP, compared with WT latent infection. Pharmacological inhibition of c-fos represses the MIEP during US28Δ infection to levels similar to those we observe during WT latent infection. Together, our data reveal that US28 is required for both establishment and long-term maintenance of HCMV latency, which is modulated, at least in part, by repressing functional AP-1 binding to the MIEP.	US28 is one of four G protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) encoded by human cytomegalovirus (HCMV). The US28 protein (pUS28) is a potent signaling molecule that alters a variety of cellular pathways that ultimately alter the host cell environment. This viral GPCR is expressed not only in the context of lytic replication but also during viral latency, highlighting its multifunctional properties. pUS28 is a functional GPCR, and its manipulation of multiple signaling pathways likely impacts HCMV pathogenesis. Herein, we will discuss the impact of pUS28 on both lytic and latent infection, pUS28-mediated signaling and its downstream consequences, and the influence this viral GPCR may have on disease states, including cardiovascular disease and cancer. We will also discuss the potential for and progress towards exploiting pUS28 as a novel therapeutic to combat HCMV.	This work represents the first comprehensive quantitative analysis of global histone post-translational modifications (PTMs) from a virus infection, namely human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) infection. We used a nanoLC-MS/MS platform to identify and quantify the dynamic histone H3 and H4 PTMs expressed during HCMV replication in primary fibroblasts. Specifically, we examined the changes in histone PTMs over a 96 h time course to sample the immediate early (IE), early (E), and late (L) stages of viral infection. Several changes in histone H3 and H4 PTMs were observed, including a marked increase in H3K79me2 and H3K27me3K36me2, and a decrease in H4K16ac, highlighting likely epigenetic strategies of transcriptional activation and silencing during HCMV lytic infection. Heavy methyl-SILAC (hm-SILAC) was used to further confirm the histone methylation flux (especially for H3K79) during HCMV infection. We evaluated DOT1L (the H3K79 methyltransferase) mRNA levels in mock and HCMV-infected cells over a 96 h time course, and observed a significant increase in this methyltransferase as early as 24 hpi showing that viral infection up-regulates DOT1L expression, which drives H3K79me2. We then used shRNA to create a DOT1L knockdown cell population, and found that HCMV infection of the knockdown cells resulted in a 10-fold growth defect when compared with infected control cells not subjected to knockdown. This work documents multiple histone PTMs that occur in response to HCMV infection of fibroblasts, and provides a framework for evaluation of the role of epigenetic modifications in the virus-host interaction. 	All of the cytomegaloviruses discovered to date encode two or more genes with significant homology to G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs). The functions of these cytomegalovirus GPCRs are just beginning to be elucidated; however, it is clear that they exhibit numerous interesting activities in both in vitro and in vivo systems. In this chapter, we review the various methodologies that can be used to examine biochemical aspects of viral GPCR signaling in vitro as well as examine the biological activity of these viral GPCRs in vitro and in vivo in virus infected cells using recombinant cytomegaloviruses. 	Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) is a ubiquitous herpesvirus for which there is no vaccine or cure. This viral infection, once acquired, is life-long, residing latently in hematopoietic cells. However, latently infected individuals with weakened immune systems often undergo HCMV reactivation, which can cause serious complications in immunosuppressed and immunocompromised patients. Current anti-viral therapies target late stages of viral replication, and are often met with therapeutic resistance, necessitating the development of novel therapeutics. In this current study, we identified a naturally-occurring flavonoid compound, deguelin, which inhibits HCMV lytic replication. Our findings reveal that nanomolar concentrations of deguelin significantly suppress the production of the infectious virus. Further, we show that deguelin inhibits the lytic cycle during the phase of the replication cycle consistent with early (E) gene and protein expression. Importantly, our data reveal that deguelin inhibits replication of a ganciclovir-resistant strain of HCMV. Together, our findings identify a novel, naturally occurring compound that may prove useful in the treatment of HCMV replication.	Infections with human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) are highly prevalent in the general population as the virus has evolved the capacity to undergo distinct replication strategies resulting in lytic, persistent, and latent infections. During the latent life cycle, HCMV resides in subsets of cells within the hematopoietic cell compartment, including hematopoietic progenitor cells (HPCs) and peripheral blood monocytes. Since only a small fraction of these cell types harbor viral genomes during natural latency, identification and analysis of distinct changes mediated by viral infection are difficult to assess. In order to characterize latent infections of HPCs, we used an approach that involves complementation of deficiencies within the human pyrimidine salvage pathway, thus allowing for conversion of labeled uracil into rUTP. Here, we report the development of a recombinant HCMV that complements the defective human pyrimidine salvage pathway, allowing incorporation of thiol containing UTP into all RNA species that are synthesized within an infected cell. This virus grows to wild-type kinetics and can establish a latent infection within two distinct culture models of HCMV latency. Using this recombinant HCMV, we report the specific labeling of transcripts only within infected cells. These transcripts reveal a transcriptional landscape during HCMV latency that is distinct from uninfected cells. The utility of this labeling system allows for the identification of distinct changes within host transcripts and will shed light on characterizing how HCMV establishes and maintains latency.IMPORTANCE HCMV is a significant pathogen that accounts for a substantial amount of complications within the immunosuppressed and immunocompromised. Of particular significance is the capacity of HCMV to reactivate within solid tissue and bone marrow transplant recipients. While it is known that HCMV latency resides within a fraction of HPCs and monocytes, the exact subset of cells that harbor latent viral genomes during natural infections remain uncharacterized. The capacity to identify changes within the host transcriptome during latent infections is critical for developing approaches that therapeutically or physically eliminate latent viral genome containing cells and will represent a major breakthrough for reducing complications due to HCMV reactivation posttransplant. In this report, we describe the generation and use of a recombinant HCMV that allows specific and distinct labeling of RNA species that are produced within virally infected cells. This is a critical first step in identifying how HCMV affects the host cell during latency and more importantly, allows one to characterize cells that harbor latent HCMV.	Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) is a prevalent pathogen that establishes lifelong infection in the host. Virus persistence is aided by extensive manipulation of the host immune system, particularly cytokine and chemokine signaling pathways. The HCMV UL111A gene encodes cmvIL-10, an ortholog of human interleukin-10 that has many immunomodulatory effects. We found that cmvIL-10 increased signaling outcomes from human CXCR4, a chemokine receptor with essential roles in hematopoiesis and immune cell trafficking, in response to its natural ligand CXCL12. Calcium flux and chemotaxis to CXCL12 were significantly greater in the presence of cmvIL-10 in monocytes, epithelial cells, and fibroblasts that express CXCR4. cmvIL-10 effects on CXCL12/CXCR4 signaling required the IL-10 receptor and Stat3 activation. Heightened signaling occurred both in HCMV-infected cells and in uninfected bystander cells, suggesting that cmvIL-10 may broadly influence chemokine networks by paracrine signaling during infection. Moreover, CXCL12/CXCR4 signaling was amplified in HCMV-infected cells compared to mock-infected cells even in the absence of cmvIL-10. Enhanced CXCL12/CXCR4 outcomes were associated with expression of the virally encoded chemokine receptor US27, and CXCL12/CXCR4 activation was reduced in cells infected with a deletion mutant lacking US27 (TB40/E-mCherry-US27Δ). US27 effects were Stat3 independent but required close proximity to CXCR4 in cell membranes of either HCMV-infected or US27-transfected cells. Thus, HCMV encodes two proteins, cmvIL-10 and US27, that exhibit distinct mechanisms for enhancing CXCR4 signaling. Either individually or in combination, cmvIL-10 and US27 may enable HCMV to exquisitely manipulate CXCR4 signaling to alter host immune responses and modify cell trafficking patterns during infection.IMPORTANCE The human chemokine system plays a central role in host defense, as evidenced by the many strategies devised by viruses for manipulating it. Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) is widespread in the human population, but infection rarely causes disease except in immunocompromised hosts. We found that two different HCMV proteins, cmvIL-10 and US27, act through distinct mechanisms to upregulate the signaling activity of a cellular chemokine receptor, CXCR4. cmvIL-10 is a secreted viral cytokine that affects CXCR4 signaling in both infected and uninfected cells, while US27 is a component of the virus particle and impacts CXCR4 activity only in infected cells. Both cmvIL-10 and US27 promote increased intracellular calcium signaling and cell migration in response to chemokine CXCL12 binding to CXCR4. Our results demonstrate that HCMV exerts fine control over the CXCL12/CXCR4 pathway, which could lead to enhanced virus dissemination, altered immune cell trafficking, and serious health implications for HCMV patients.	Reactivation of human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) is a significant cause of disease and death in immunocompromised patients, underscoring the need to understand how latency is controlled. Here we demonstrate that HCMV has evolved to utilize cellular microRNAs (miRNAs) in cells that promote latency to regulate expression of a viral protein critical for viral reactivation. Our data reveal that hsa-miR-200 miRNA family members target the UL122 (immediate early protein 2) 3' untranslated region, resulting in repression of this viral protein. Utilizing recombinant viruses that mutate the miRNA-binding site compared to the sequence of the wild-type virus results in lytic rather than latent infections in ex vivo infections of primary CD34+ cells. Cells permissive for lytic replication demonstrate low levels of these miRNAs. We propose that cellular miRNA regulation of HCMV is critical for maintenance of viral latency. Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) is a herpesvirus that infects a majority of the population. Once acquired, individuals harbor the virus for life, where the virus remains, for the most part, in a quiet or latent state. Under weakened immune conditions, the virus can reactivate, which can cause severe disease and often death. We have found that members of a family of small RNAs, termed microRNAs, encoded by human myeloid progenitor cells are capable of repressing a key viral protein, thus enabling the virus to ensure a quiet/latent state. As these progenitor cells mature further down the myeloid lineage toward cells that support active viral replication, the levels of these microRNAs decrease. Together, our data suggest that host cell microRNA regulation of HCMV is important for the quiet/latent state of this pathogen.	Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) is a herpesvirus that establishes a lifelong, latent infection within a host. At times when the immune system is compromised, the virus undergoes a lytic reactivation producing infectious progeny. The identification and understanding of the biological mechanisms underlying HCMV latency and reactivation are not completely defined. To this end, we have developed a tractable in vitro model system to investigate these phases of viral infection using a clonal population of myeloid progenitor cells (Kasumi-3 cells). Infection of these cells results in maintenance of the viral genome with restricted viral RNA expression that is reversed with the addition of the phorbol ester 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA, also known as PMA). Additionally, a latent viral transcript (LUNA) is expressed at times where viral lytic transcription is suppressed. Infected Kasumi-3 cells initiate production of infectious virus following TPA treatment, which requires cell-to-cell contact for efficient transfer of virus to other cell types. Importantly, lytically infected fibroblast, endothelial, or epithelial cells can transfer virus to Kasumi-3 cells, which fail to initiate lytic replication until stimulated with TPA. Finally, inflammatory cytokines, in addition to the pharmacological agent TPA, are sufficient for transcription of immediate-early (IE) genes following latent infection. Taken together, our findings argue that the Kasumi-3 cell line is a tractable in vitro model system with which to study HCMV latency and reactivation.	Like many double-stranded DNA viruses, tumor gammaherpesviruses Epstein-Barr virus and Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus withstand high internal pressure. Bacteriophage HK97 uses covalent chainmail for this purpose, but how this is achieved noncovalently in the much larger gammaherpesvirus capsid is unknown. Our cryoelectron microscopy structure of a gammaherpesvirus capsid reveals a hierarchy of four levels of organization: (1) Within a hexon capsomer, each monomer of the major capsid protein (MCP), 1,378 amino acids and six domains, interacts with its neighboring MCPs at four sites. (2) Neighboring capsomers are linked in pairs by MCP dimerization domains and in groups of three by heterotrimeric triplex proteins. (3) Small (∼280 amino acids) HK97-like domains in MCP monomers alternate with triplex heterotrimers to form a belt that encircles each capsomer. (4) One hundred sixty-two belts concatenate to form noncovalent chainmail. The triplex heterotrimer orchestrates all four levels and likely drives maturation to an angular capsid that can withstand pressurization. 
O'Toole, John	Inflammation and Immunity	29949895	29180397	29110761	27026370	24516335	24116217	21071984	20100174	24892702	24233469	Multiple ongoing, government-funded national efforts longitudinally collect health data and biospecimens for precision medicine research with ascertainment strategies increasingly emphasizing underrepresented groups in biomedical research. We surveyed chronic kidney disease patients from an academic, public integrated tertiary care system in Cleveland, Ohio, to examine local attitudes toward participation in large-scale government-funded studies. Responses (n = 103) indicate the majority (71%) would participate in a hypothetical national precision medicine cohort and were willing to send biospecimens to a national repository and share de-identified data, but &lt;50% of respondents were willing to install a phone app to track personal data. The majority of participants (62%) indicated that return of research results was very important, and the majority (54%) also wanted all of their research-collected health and genetic data returned. Response patterns did not differ by race/ethnicity. Overall, we found high willingness to participate among this Cleveland patient population already participating in a local genetic study. These data suggest that despite common perceptions, subjects from communities traditionally underrepresented in genetic research will participate and agree to store samples and health data in repositories. Furthermore, most participants want return of research results, which will require a plan to provide these data in a secure, accessible, and understandable manner.	Coding variants in the APOL1 gene are associated with kidney diseases in African ancestral populations; yet, the underlying biologic mechanisms remain uncertain. Variant-dependent autophagic and cytotoxic cell death have been proposed as pathogenic pathways mediating kidney injury. To examine this possibility, we conditionally expressed APOL1-G0 (reference), -G1, and -G2 (variants) using a tetracycline-regulated system in HEK293 cells. Autophagy was monitored biochemically and cell death was measured using multiple assays. We measured intracellular Na<sup>+</sup> and K<sup>+</sup> content with atomic absorption spectroscopy and APOL1-dependent currents with whole-cell patch clamping. Neither reference nor variant APOL1s induced autophagy. At high expression levels, APOL1-G0, -G1, and -G2 inserted into the plasma membrane and formed pH-sensitive cation channels, causing collapse of cellular Na<sup>+</sup> and K<sup>+</sup> gradients, phosphorylation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase, and cell death, without variant-dependent differences. APOL1-G0 and -G2 exhibited similar channel properties in whole-cell patch clamp experiments. At low expression levels, neither reference nor variant APOL1s localized on the plasma membrane, Na<sup>+</sup> and K<sup>+</sup> gradients were maintained, and cells remained viable. Our results indicate that APOL1-mediated pore formation is critical for the trypanolytic activity of APOL1 and drives APOL1-mediated cytotoxicity in overexpression systems. The absence of cytotoxicity at physiologic expression levels suggests variant-dependent intracellular K<sup>+</sup> loss and cytotoxicity does not drive kidney disease progression.	The association of variants in the APOL1 gene, which encodes apolipoprotein L1 (APOL1), with progressive nondiabetic kidney diseases in African Americans has prompted intense investigation into the function(s) of APOL1. APOL1 is an innate immune effector that protects human beings from infection by some trypanosomal parasites. We review the data characterizing APOL1 trypanolytic function, which has been a basis for studies of APOL1 function in mammalian cells. Subsequently, we discuss the studies that use animal models, mammalian cell culture models, and kidney biopsy tissue to discover the mechanisms of variant APOL1-associated kidney diseases.	APOL1 risk variants are associated with kidney disease in blacks, but the mechanisms of renal injury associated with APOL1 risk variants are unknown. Because APOL1 is unique to humans and some primates, we created transgenic (Tg) mice using the promoter of nephrin-encoding Nphs1 to express the APOL1 reference sequence (G0) or the G2 risk variant in podocytes, establishing Tg lines with a spectrum of APOL1 expression levels. Podocytes from Tg-G0 and Tg-G2 mice did not undergo necrosis, apoptosis, or autophagic cell death in vivo, even in lines with highly expressed transgenes. Further, Tg-G0 and Tg-G2 mice did not develop kidney pathology, proteinuria, or azotemia as of 300 days of age. However, by 200 days of age, Tg-G2 mice had significantly lower podocyte density than age-matched WT and Tg-G0 mice had, a difference that was not evident at weaning. Notably, a pregnancy-associated phenotype that encompassed eclampsia, preeclampsia, fetal/neonatal deaths, and small litter sizes occurred in some Tg-G0 mice and more severely in Tg-G2 mice. Similar to human placenta, placentas of Tg mice expressed APOL1. Overall, these results suggest podocyte depletion could predispose individuals with APOL1 risk genotypes to kidney disease in response to a second stressor, and add to other published evidence associating APOL1 expression with preeclampsia.	Mitochondrial diseases can be related to mutations in either the nuclear or mitochondrial genome. Childhood presentations are commonly associated with renal tubular dysfunction, but renal involvement is less commonly reported outside of this age-group. Mitochondrial diseases are notable for the significant variability in their clinical presentation and the broad spectrum of genes implicated in their etiology. These features contribute to the challenges of establishing a definitive diagnosis and understanding the pathogenetic mechanisms leading to kidney involvement in these diseases. Here, we review the deoxyribonucleic acid variants in the mitochondrial and nuclear genomes that have been associated with a kidney phenotype, and examine some of the possible pathogenic mechanisms that may contribute to the expression of a renal phenotype. 	Recessive mutations in XPNPEP3, encoding a mitochondrial x-prolyl aminopeptidase, have been identified in families with a rare hereditary tubulointerstitial kidney disease. The yeast ortholog of XPNPEP3, Icp55p, participates in the proteolytic processing and stabilization of mitochondrial proteins and its deletion accelerates the degradation of its protein targets. We used icp55 deletion strains of S. cerevisiae to model loss of XPNPEP3 enzymatic function and study its phenotypic consequences on mitochondrial function. We found that Icp55p is not required for respiratory competence; however, compared to controls deletion strains had reduced mitochondrial oxygen consumption when grown in glucose containing media. The reduced mitochondrial respiration of icp55 deletion strains in glucose media requires the mitochondrial peptide transporter, Mdl1p, and was corrected by Tor1p inhibition with rapamycin. Under similar growth conditions the abundance of the mitochondrial ATP synthase complex was decreased in the icp55 deletion strain and was corrected by concurrent deletion of tor1. The icp55 deletion strain demonstrated an increased chronological lifespan and decreased reactive oxygen species. These changes were additive to similar changes known to occur in tor1 deletion strains suggesting independent mechanisms. Together, these results demonstrate that loss of Icp55p function reduces mitochondrial oxygen consumption and ATP synthase complex assembly in glucose media, while also promoting stress resistance, decreasing reactive oxygen species and increasing chronological lifespan through mechanisms that are distinct from decreased Tor1p activity. 	The genetic contribution to calcium metabolism is well recognized. Many of the proteins that contribute to calcium homeostasis through intestinal absorption, bone deposition and resorption, renal reabsorption and the molecules regulating these processes have been identified. Mutations in many of the genes coding for these proteins have been identified and often have clear clinical phenotypes. These mutations are generally rare with large effect sizes and a high degree of penetrance. As monogenetic diseases, they have a mendelian inheritance pattern and have been identified with traditional family-based linkage studies. A great deal of progress has been made in the understanding of the physiology of calcium metabolism; however, it remains an evolving field. The identification of the monogenetic etiology of disease has contributed greatly to our understanding of calcium handling and homeostasis. Transgenic animal models of these diseases continue to offer new insights into the mechanisms of calcium metabolism and its regulation. The purpose of this review is to briefly outline calcium metabolism focusing on the mechanisms of intestinal absorption and renal reabsorption as a framework to review the monogenic causes of dysregulated calcium metabolism.	Kidney function declines with advancing age and mitochondria have been implicated. In the present study we have examined the integrated function of mitochondria isolated from kidneys of 6- and 24-month-old Fischer 344 rats. OXPHOS (oxidative phosphorylation) of intact mitochondria and cytochrome c oxidase activity in permeabilized mitochondria were determined with polarographic assays. The activities of the ETC (electron transport chain) complexes and the cytochrome content in solubilized mitochondria were measured using spectrophotometric methods. The respiratory complexes were evaluated with blue native gel electrophoresis. Mitochondrial preparations were evaluated by immunoblotting for cytochrome c, Smac/Diablo and VDAC (voltage-dependent anion channel). Mitochondrial morphology was examined by electron microscopy. OXPHOS of mitochondria isolated from 24-month-old animals was decreased 15-25% with complexes I, II, III and IV, and fatty acid substrates. The electron microscopic appearance of mitochondria, the activity of the ETC complexes and the protein abundance of individual complexes and supercomplexes were unchanged. The content of cytochrome c was decreased by 37% in aged mitochondria, as determined by spectrophotometric methods and confirmed with immunoblotting. Polarographic determination of cytochrome c oxidase activity with endogenous cytochrome c demonstrated a 23% reduction in aged mitochondria, which was corrected with the addition of exogenous cytochrome c. Renal mitochondrial OXPHOS decreased with aging in the Fischer 344 rat. Decreased mitochondrial cytochrome c content is a major factor contributing to the OXPHOS defect of mitochondria isolated from kidneys of elderly animals.	Kidney disease is one of the most prevalent chronic conditions and is a frequent complication of diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and obesity. Recent advances in biomedical research and novel technologies have created opportunities to study kidney disease in a variety of platforms, applied to human populations. The Reviews in this series discuss the kidney in hypertension, diabetes, and monogenic forms of kidney disease, as well as the cellular and molecular mediators of acute kidney injury and fibrosis, IgA nephropathy and idiopathic membranous nephropathy, and kidney transplantation. In this introduction, we briefly review new insights into focal segmental glomerulosclerosis and the role of podocytes in health and disease. Additionally, we discuss how new technologies, therapeutics, and the availability of patient data can help shape the study of kidney disease and ultimately inform policies concerning biomedical research and health care. 	Recent studies have identified genetic variants in APOL1 that may contribute to the increased incidence of kidney disease in populations with African ancestry. Here, we review the biology of APOL1 present in the circulation and localized to the kidney as it may contribute to the pathogenesis of APOL1-associated kidney disease.
Obuchowski, Nancy	Quantitative Health Sciences	30597055	29921163	29512515	29298603	29191687	28253530	26898527	25842015	25300725	24919829	As imaging technologies and treatment options continue to advance, imaging outcome measures are becoming increasingly utilized as the basis of making major decisions in new drug development and clinical practice. Quantitative imaging biomarkers (QIBs) are now commonly used for subject selection, response assessment, and safety monitoring. Although quantitative measurements can have many advantages compared with subjective, qualitative endpoints, it is important to recognize that QIBs are measured with error. This study uses Monte Carlo simulation to examine the impact of measurement error on a variety of clinical trial designs as well as to test proposed adjustments for measurement error. The focus is on some of the QIBs currently being studied by the Quantitative Imaging Biomarkers Alliance. The results show that the ability of QIBs to discriminate between health states and predict patient outcome is attenuated by measurement error; however, the known technical performance characteristics of QIBs can be used to adjust study sample size, control the misinterpretation rate of imaging findings, and establish statistically valid decision thresholds. We conclude that estimates of the precision and bias of a QIB are important for properly designing clinical trials and establishing the level of imaging standardization required.	Diagnostic systems designed to detect possibly multiple lesions per patient (e.g. multiple polyps during CT colonoscopy) are often evaluated in &quot;free-response&quot; studies that allow for diagnostic responses unconstrained in their number and locations. Analysis of free-response studies requires extensions of the traditional receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis, which are termed free-response ROC (FROC) methodology. Despite substantial developments in this area, FROC tools and approaches are much more cumbersome than traditional ROC methods. Alternative approaches that use well-known ROC tools (e.g. ROI-ROC) require defining and physically delineating regions of interest (ROI) and combine FROC data within ROIs. We propose an approach that allows analyzing FROC data using conventional ROC tools without delineating the actual ROIs or reducing data. The design parameters of FROC study are used to make FROC data analyzable using ROC tools and to calibrate the corresponding FROC and ROC curves on both conceptual and numerical levels. Differences in the performance indices of the nonparametric FROC and the new approach are shown to be asymptotically negligible and typically rather small in practice. Data from a large multi-reader study of colon cancer detection are used to illustrate the new approach.	Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis is a tool used to describe the discrimination accuracy of a diagnostic test or prediction model. While sensitivity and specificity are the basic metrics of accuracy, they have many limitations when characterizing test accuracy, particularly when comparing the accuracies of competing tests. In this article we review the basic study design features of ROC studies, illustrate sample size calculations, present statistical methods for measuring and comparing accuracy, and highlight commonly used ROC software. We include descriptions of multi-reader ROC study design and analysis, address frequently seen problems of verification and location bias, discuss clustered data, and provide strategies for testing endpoints in ROC studies. The methods are illustrated with a study of transmission ultrasound for diagnosing breast lesions.	Introduction Quantitative imaging biomarkers (QIBs) are being increasingly used in medical practice and clinical trials. An essential first step in the adoption of a quantitative imaging biomarker is the characterization of its technical performance, i.e. precision and bias, through one or more performance studies. Then, given the technical performance, a confidence interval for a new patient's true biomarker value can be constructed. Estimating bias and precision can be problematic because rarely are both estimated in the same study, precision studies are usually quite small, and bias cannot be measured when there is no reference standard. Methods A Monte Carlo simulation study was conducted to assess factors affecting nominal coverage of confidence intervals for a new patient's quantitative imaging biomarker measurement and for change in the quantitative imaging biomarker over time. Factors considered include sample size for estimating bias and precision, effect of fixed and non-proportional bias, clustered data, and absence of a reference standard. Results Technical performance studies of a quantitative imaging biomarker should include at least 35 test-retest subjects to estimate precision and 65 cases to estimate bias. Confidence intervals for a new patient's quantitative imaging biomarker measurement constructed under the no-bias assumption provide nominal coverage as long as the fixed bias is &lt;12%. For confidence intervals of the true change over time, linearity must hold and the slope of the regression of the measurements vs. true values should be between 0.95 and 1.05. The regression slope can be assessed adequately as long as fixed multiples of the measurand can be generated. Even small non-proportional bias greatly reduces confidence interval coverage. Multiple lesions in the same subject can be treated as independent when estimating precision. Conclusion Technical performance studies of quantitative imaging biomarkers require moderate sample sizes in order to provide robust estimates of bias and precision for constructing confidence intervals for new patients. Assumptions of linearity and non-proportional bias should be assessed thoroughly.	Quantitative imaging biomarkers (QIBs) are becoming increasingly adopted into clinical practice to monitor changes in patients' conditions. The repeatability coefficient (RC) is the clinical cut-point used to discern between changes in a biomarker's measurements due to measurement error and changes that exceed measurement error, thus indicating real change in the patient. Imaging biomarkers have characteristics that make them difficult for estimating the repeatability coefficient, including nonconstant error, non-Gaussian distributions, and measurement error that must be estimated from small studies. We conducted a Monte Carlo simulation study to investigate how well three statistical methods for estimating the repeatability coefficient perform under five settings common for QIBs. When the measurement error is constant and replicates are normally distributed, all of the statistical methods perform well. When the measurement error is proportional to the true value, approaches that use the log transformation or coefficient of variation perform similarly. For other common settings, none of the methods for estimating the repeatability coefficient perform adequately. Many of the common approaches to estimating the repeatability coefficient perform well for only limited scenarios. The optimal approach depends strongly on the pattern of the within-subject variability; thus, a precision profile is critical in evaluating the technical performance of QIBs. Asymmetric bounds for detecting regression vs progression can be implemented and should be used when clinically appropriate.	Biostatistics is an essential component in most original research studies in imaging. In this article we discuss five key statistical concepts for study design and analyses in modern imaging research: statistical hypothesis testing, particularly focusing on noninferiority studies; imaging outcomes especially when there is no reference standard; dealing with the multiplicity problem without spending all your study power; relevance of confidence intervals in reporting and interpreting study results; and finally tools for assessing quantitative imaging biomarkers. These concepts are presented first as examples of conversations between investigator and biostatistician, and then more detailed discussions of the statistical concepts follow. Three skeletal radiology examples are used to illustrate the concepts.	A major initiative of the Quantitative Imaging Biomarker Alliance is to develop standards-based documents called &quot;Profiles,&quot; which describe one or more technical performance claims for a given imaging modality. The term &quot;actor&quot; denotes any entity (device, software, or person) whose performance must meet certain specifications for the claim to be met. The objective of this paper is to present the statistical issues in testing actors' conformance with the specifications. In particular, we present the general rationale and interpretation of the claims, the minimum requirements for testing whether an actor achieves the performance requirements, the study designs used for testing conformity, and the statistical analysis plan. We use three examples to illustrate the process: apparent diffusion coefficient in solid tumors measured by MRI, change in Perc 15 as a biomarker for the progression of emphysema, and percent change in solid tumor volume by computed tomography as a biomarker for lung cancer progression. 	The goal of the study was to determine the effects of guideline implementation strategy using 2 commercial radiology clinical decision support (CDS) systems. The appropriateness and insurance dispositions of MRI and CT orders were evaluated using the Medicalis SmartReq and Nuance RadPort CDS systems during 2 different 3-month periods. Logistic regression was used to compare these outcomes between the 2 systems, after adjusting for patient-mix differences. Approximately 2,000 consecutive outpatient MRI and CT orders were evaluated over 2 periods of 3 months each. Medicalis scored 60% of exams as &quot;indeterminate&quot; (insufficient information) or &quot;not validated&quot; (no guidelines). Excluding these cases, Nuance scored significantly more exams as appropriate than did Medicalis (80% versus 51%, P &lt; .001) and predicted insurance outcome significantly more often (76% versus 58%, P &lt; .001). Only when the Medicalis &quot;indeterminate&quot; and &quot;not validated&quot; categories were combined with the high- or moderate-utility categories did the 2 CDS systems have similar performance. Overall, 19% of examinations with low-utility ratings were reimbursed. Conversely, 0.8% of examinations with high- or moderate-utility ratings were denied reimbursement. The chief difference between the 2 CDS systems, and the strongest influence on outcomes, was how exams without relevant guidelines or with insufficient information were handled. Nuance augmented published guidelines with clinical best practice; Medicalis requested additional information utilizing pop-up windows. Thus, guideline implementation choices contributed to decision making and outcomes. User interface, specifically, the number of screens and completeness of indication choices, controlled CDS interactions and, coupled with guidance implementation, influenced willingness to use the CDS system.	New tests are typically assessed by estimating their technical and diagnostic performance through comparisons with a reference standard. A valid reference standard, however, is not always available and is not required for assessing the interchangeability of a new test with an existing one. To show interchangeability of a new test with an existing test, one compares the differences in diagnoses between the new and existing tests to differences between diagnoses made with the existing test on several occasions. We illustrate the test for interchangeability with two studies. In a transcatheter aortic valve replacement study, we test whether semiautomated analysis can be used interchangeably with manual reconstructions from three-dimensional computed tomography (CT) images. In patients with femoroacetabular impingement, we test whether magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) can replace CT to measure acetabular version. Although the semiautomated method agreed often with the manual measurement of aortic valve size (87.6%), interchanging the semiautomated method with manual measurements by an expert would lead to a 1.7%-12.2% increase in the frequency of disagreement. Interchanging MRI for CT to measure acetabular version would lead to differences in angle measurements of 2.0° to 3.1° in excess of the differences we would expect to see with CT alone. Testing for agreement or correlation between a new and an existing test is not sufficient evidence of the performance of a new test. A formal evaluation of interchangeability can be conducted in the absence of a reference standard.	Quantitative biomarkers from medical images are becoming important tools for clinical diagnosis, staging, monitoring, treatment planning, and development of new therapies. While there is a rich history of the development of quantitative imaging biomarker (QIB) techniques, little attention has been paid to the validation and comparison of the computer algorithms that implement the QIB measurements. In this paper we provide a framework for QIB algorithm comparisons. We first review and compare various study designs, including designs with the true value (e.g. phantoms, digital reference images, and zero-change studies), designs with a reference standard (e.g. studies testing equivalence with a reference standard), and designs without a reference standard (e.g. agreement studies and studies of algorithm precision). The statistical methods for comparing QIB algorithms are then presented for various study types using both aggregate and disaggregate approaches. We propose a series of steps for establishing the performance of a QIB algorithm, identify limitations in the current statistical literature, and suggest future directions for research. 
Olman, Mitchell	Inflammation and Immunity	29019812	28523001	26763235	26597012	23499373	24644284	19411312	16797514	18669633	14764742	The incidence of venous thromboembolism (VTE) after lung transplantation (LTX) varies significantly across studies. Two studies have suggested that these thrombotic events are associated with a lower posttransplant survival. Herein, we sought to determine the incidence, predictors, and impact of VTE on survival after LTX at a quaternary referral center. This was a large cohort study of LTX recipients. Key outcome parameters were time to VTE after transplant and survival. Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) diagnosis required a positive ultrasound. Pulmonary embolism diagnosis required either a positive chest computed tomography angiogram or a high-probability ventilation/perfusion scan. The overall incidence of VTE among 701 LTX recipients was 43.8%, of which 97.7% were DVT episodes, of which 71.3% were in the upper extremities. Predictors of VTE were prior history of DVT (hazard ratio [HR], 2.82; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.49-5.37), days in intensive care (HR, 1.01; 95% CI, 1.01-1.02), and the use of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (HR, 2.22; 95% CI, 1.43-3.45). Importantly, VTE predicted a lower posttransplant survival (HR, 1.70; 95% CI, 1.28-2.26), when occurring within or after the first 30 days. The location of the DVT, either upper extremity or below the knee, also predicted a poor survival. VTE was frequent in LTX recipients and predicted a poor survival even when located in the upper extremities or below the knee. These data suggest that aggressive VTE screening/treatment protocols be implemented in post-LTX population.	Ion channels/pumps are essential regulators of organ homeostasis and disease. In the present review, we discuss the role of the mechanosensitive cation channel, transient receptor potential vanilloid 4 (TRPV4), in cytokine secretion and pulmonary inflammatory diseases such as asthma, cystic fibrosis (CF), and acute lung injury/acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). TRPV4 has been shown to play a role in lung diseases associated with lung parenchymal stretch or stiffness. TRPV4 indirectly mediates hypotonicity-induced smooth muscle contraction and airway remodeling in asthma. Further, the literature suggests that in CF TRPV4 may improve ciliary beat frequency enhancing mucociliary clearance, while at the same time increasing pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion/lung tissue injury. Currently it is understood that the role of TRPV4 in immune cell function and associated lung tissue injury/ARDS may depend on the injury stimulus. Uncovering the downstream mechanisms of TRPV4 action in pulmonary inflammatory diseases is likely important to understanding disease pathogenesis and may lead to novel therapeutics.	Pro-fibrotic mesenchymal cells are known to be the key effector cells of fibroproliferative disease, but the specific matrix signals and the induced cellular responses that drive the fibrogenic phenotype remain to be elucidated. The key mediators of the fibroblast fibrogenic phenotype were characterized using a novel assay system that measures fibroblast behavior in response to actual normal and fibrotic lung tissue. Using this system, we demonstrate that normal lung promotes fibroblast motility and polarization, while fibrotic lung immobilizes the fibroblast and promotes myofibroblast differentiation. These context-specific phenotypes are surprisingly both mediated by myosin II. The role of myosin II is supported by the observation of an increase in myosin phosphorylation and a change in intracellular distribution in fibroblasts on fibrotic lung, as compared with normal lung. Moreover, loss of myosin II activity has opposing effects on protrusive activity in fibroblasts on normal and fibrotic lung. Loss of myosin II also selectively inhibits myofibroblast differentiation in fibroblasts on fibrotic lung. Importantly, these findings are recapitulated by varying the matrix stiffness of polyacrylamide gels in the range of normal and fibrotic lung tissue. Comparison of the effects of myosin inhibition on lung tissue with that of polyacrylamide gels suggests that matrix fiber organization drives the fibroblast phenotype under conditions of normal/soft lung, while matrix stiffness drives the phenotype under conditions of fibrotic/stiff lung. This work defines novel roles for myosin II as a key regulatory effector molecule of the pro-fibrotic phenotype, in response to biophysical properties of the matrix. 	Macrophage phagocytosis of particles and pathogens is an essential aspect of innate host defense. Phagocytic function requires cytoskeletal rearrangements that depend on the interaction between macrophage surface receptors, particulates/pathogens, and the extracellular matrix. In the present study we determine the role of a mechanosensitive ion channel, transient receptor potential vanilloid 4 (TRPV4), in integrating the LPS and matrix stiffness signals to control macrophage phenotypic change for host defense and resolution from lung injury. We demonstrate that active TRPV4 mediates LPS-stimulated murine macrophage phagocytosis of nonopsonized particles (Escherichia coli) in vitro and opsonized particles (IgG-coated latex beads) in vitro and in vivo in intact mice. Intriguingly, matrix stiffness in the range seen in inflamed or fibrotic lung is required to sensitize the TRPV4 channel to mediate the LPS-induced increment in macrophage phagocytosis. Furthermore, TRPV4 is required for the LPS induction of anti-inflammatory/proresolution cytokines. These findings suggest that signaling through TRPV4, triggered by changes in extracellular matrix stiffness, cooperates with LPS-induced signals to mediate macrophage phagocytic function and lung injury resolution. These mechanisms are likely to be important in regulating macrophage function in the context of pulmonary infection and fibrosis. 	Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a progressive fibrotic lung disease whose underlying molecular mechanisms are largely unknown. Herein, we show that focal adhesion kinase-related nonkinase (FRNK) plays a key role in limiting the development of lung fibrosis. Loss of FRNK function in vivo leads to increased lung fibrosis in an experimental mouse model. The increase in lung fibrosis is confirmed at the histological, biochemical, and physiological levels. Concordantly, loss of FRNK function results in increased fibroblast migration and myofibroblast differentiation and activation of signaling proteins that drive these phenotypes. FRNK-deficient murine lung fibroblasts also have an increased capacity to produce and contract matrix proteins. Restoration of FRNK expression in vivo and in vitro reverses these profibrotic phenotypes. These data demonstrate the multiple antifibrotic actions of FRNK. More important, FRNK expression is down-regulated in human IPF, and down-regulation of FRNK in normal human lung fibroblasts recapitulates the profibrotic phenotype seen in FRNK-deficient cells. The effect of loss and gain of FRNK in the experimental model, when taken together with its down-regulation in human IPF, suggests that FRNK acts as an endogenous negative regulator of lung fibrosis by repressing multiple profibrotic responses.	The urokinase-type plasminogen activator receptor (uPAR) is a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-linked membrane protein with no cytosolic domain that localizes to lipid raft microdomains. Our laboratory and others have documented that lung fibroblasts from patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) exhibit a hypermotile phenotype. This study was undertaken to elucidate the molecular mechanism whereby uPAR ligation with its cognate ligand, urokinase, induces a motile phenotype in human lung fibroblasts. We found that uPAR ligation with the urokinase receptor binding domain (amino-terminal fragment) leads to enhanced migration of fibroblasts on fibronectin in a protease-independent, lipid raft-dependent manner. Ligation of uPAR with the amino-terminal fragment recruited α5β1 integrin and the acylated form of the Src family kinase, Fyn, to lipid rafts. The biological consequences of this translocation were an increase in fibroblast motility and a switch of the integrin-initiated signal pathway for migration away from the lipid raft-independent focal adhesion kinase pathway and toward a lipid raft-dependent caveolin-Fyn-Shc pathway. Furthermore, an integrin homologous peptide as well as an antibody that competes with β1 for uPAR binding have the ability to block this effect. In addition, its relative insensitivity to cholesterol depletion suggests that the interactions of α5β1 integrin and uPAR drive the translocation of α5β1 integrin-acylated Fyn signaling complexes into lipid rafts upon uPAR ligation through protein-protein interactions. This signal switch is a novel pathway leading to the hypermotile phenotype of IPF patient-derived fibroblasts, seen with uPAR ligation. This uPAR dependent, fibrotic matrix-selective, and profibrotic fibroblast phenotype may be amenable to targeted therapeutics designed to ameliorate IPF. 	Fibroblasts from patients with pulmonary fibrosis express higher levels of the receptor for urokinase, and the extent of fibrosis in some animal models exhibits a dependence on the urokinase receptor. Recent observations have identified the urokinase receptor as a trans-interacting receptor with consequences on signaling and cell responses that vary depending on its interacting partner, the relative levels of expression, and the state of cellular transformation. We undertook this study to define the urokinase-type plasminogen activator cellular receptor (u-PAR)-integrin interactions and to determine the functional consequences of such interactions on normal human lung fibroblast attachment and migration. u-PAR colocalizes in lammelipodia/filopodia with relevant integrins that mediate fibroblast attachment and spreading on the provisional matrix proteins vitronectin, fibronectin, and collagens. Inhibitory antibody studies have revealed that human lung fibroblasts utilize alpha(v)beta(5) to attach to vitronectin, predominantly alpha(5)beta(1) (and alpha(v)beta(3)) to attach to fibronectin, and alpha(1)beta(1), alpha(2)beta(1), and alpha(3)beta(1) to attach to collagen. Blocking studies with alpha-integrin subunit decoy peptides and u-PAR neutralizing antibodies indicate that u-PAR modulates the integrin-mediated attachment to purified provisional matrix proteins, to anti-integrin antibodies, or to fibroproliferative lesions from fibrotic lungs. Furthermore, these decoy peptides blunt fibroblast spreading and migration. We show that u-PAR can interact with multiple alpha-integrins but with a preference for alpha(3). Taken together, these data demonstrate that u-PAR may interact with multiple integrins in normal human lung fibroblasts thereby promoting attachment, spreading, and migration. Modulation of fibroblast invasion would be expected to lead to amelioration of fibroproliferative diseases of the lung.	Acute lung injury (ALI) is a clinical syndrome in which patients develop severe and progressive pulmonary gas exchange defects and pulmonary mechanical dysfunction. The high morbidity and mortality (40%) associated with ALI provide a compelling need to identify clinical and/or biochemical parameters that robustly risk stratify patients for both accurate prognostication and clinical trial purposes. In this review, we will examine and critically evaluate studies pertaining to biochemical markers of mortality in ALI. These markers may not only serve as prognostic measures of disease, but in some cases, add to our overall understanding of the pathophysiology of ALI.	Transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1 induces fibroblast transdifferentiation to myofibroblasts, a process that requires the involvement of integrin-mediated signaling and focal adhesion kinase (FAK). FAK-related non-kinase (FRNK) is known for its role in inhibiting integrin-mediated cell migration; however, its role in myofibroblast differentiation has not been defined. Here, we report that FRNK abrogates TGF-beta1-induced myofibroblast differentiation in vitro and in vivo. TGF-beta1 can induce alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA) expression in the presence or absence of FAK; however, TGF-beta1-induced alpha-SMA expression is reduced (approximately 73%) in FAK-deficient fibroblasts. Although both ERK and p38 MAPK activation is required for maximal TGF-beta1-induced alpha-SMA expression, ERK is the major signaling intermediate in cells that express FAK. In contrast, p38 MAPK is the dominant mediator of TGF-beta1-induced alpha-SMA expression in FAK-deficient cells. FRNK overexpression blocks TGF-beta1-induced ERK or p38 MAPK activation in the presence, and surprisingly, in the absence of FAK. The loss of FRNK was tested in vivo during experimentally induced pulmonary fibrosis in mice. FRNK knock-out mice have a greater increase in alpha-SMA-expressing cells in response to a pulmonary fibrotic stimulus in vivo, as compared with congenic wild type mice. This is the first time that FRNK loss has been shown to modify the pathobiology in any animal disease model. Together, the data demonstrate that FRNK negatively regulates myofibroblast differentiation in vitro and in vivo. These data further suggest that modulation FRNK expression may be a novel avenue for therapeutic intervention in tissue fibrosis.	Although the fibroproliferative response to lung injury occurs with a high frequency in patients with clinical acute lung injury, the mechanisms that initiate this response are largely unknown. This study was undertaken first to identify fibroblast mitogenic factors in pulmonary edema fluid, and second to examine the human lung fibroblast's gene expression profile in response to pulmonary edema fluid. The edema fluid obtained from patients with early lung injury has an eightfold higher concentration of IL-1beta and a twofold greater IL-1beta-dependent mitogenic effect than does fluid obtained from control patients with hydrostatic pulmonary edema. Furthermore, fibroblasts responded to acute lung injury patient-derived edema fluid through production of soluble mediators that possess an autocrine mitogenic effect. Gene array analysis reveals that acute lung injury edema fluid induces several inflammation-modulating and proliferation-related genes in fibroblasts, whose inductions are similarly dependent on bioactive IL-1beta. Most notably, the 20-fold induction of IL-6 mRNA and protein was completely blocked by IL-1 receptor antagonist. The combined addition of IL-1beta and IL-6 was mitogenic, and the proliferative response to conditioned medium from IL-1beta-exposed cells was blocked by antagonistically acting Abs to IL-6 or to gp130. These novel findings indicate that soluble IL-1beta bioactivity and autocrine IL-1beta-dependent IL-6 up-regulation are critical initiators of fibroblast activation and proliferation and that they likely play a role in the fibroproliferative response seen in human acute lung injury.
Padgett, Richard	Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences	24865609	22594801	22397991	18824513	18658120	16043500	14691257	12409455	12049749	11680842	Biallelic mutations of the human RNU4ATAC gene, which codes for the minor spliceosomal U4atac snRNA, cause the developmental disorder, MOPD I/TALS. To date, nine separate mutations in RNU4ATAC have been identified in MOPD I patients. Evidence suggests that all of these mutations lead to abrogation of U4atac snRNA function and impaired minor intron splicing. However, the molecular basis of these effects is unknown. Here, we use a variety of in vitro and in vivo assays to address this question. We find that only one mutation, 124G&gt;A, leads to significantly reduced expression of U4atac snRNA, whereas four mutations, 30G&gt;A, 50G&gt;A, 50G&gt;C and 51G&gt;A, show impaired binding of essential protein components of the U4atac/U6atac di-snRNP in vitro and in vivo. Analysis of MOPD I patient fibroblasts and iPS cells homozygous for the most common mutation, 51G&gt;A, shows reduced levels of the U4atac/U6atac.U5 tri-snRNP complex as determined by glycerol gradient sedimentation and immunoprecipitation. In this report, we establish a mechanistic basis for MOPD I disease and show that the inefficient splicing of genes containing U12-dependent introns in patient cells is due to defects in minor tri-snRNP formation, and the MOPD I-associated RNU4ATAC mutations can affect multiple facets of minor snRNA function. 	Proper splicing of pre-mRNA is required for protein synthesis and therefore is a fundamental cellular function. The discovery of a variety of somatic spliceosomal mutations in haematological malignancies, including myeloid neoplasms and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia has pointed to a new leukaemogenic pathway involving spliceosomal dysfunction. Theoretically, spliceosomal mutations can lead to activation of incorrect splice sites, intron retention or aberrant alternative splicing occurring in patterns generated by mutations of individual spliceosomal proteins. Such events can produce a defective balance between protein isoforms leading to functional consequences including defective regulation of proliferation and differentiation. The observed pattern of occurrence of highly specific missense mutations, coupled with the lack of nonsense mutations and deletions, implies a gain-of-function or better gain-of-dysfunction mechanism. Incorrect splicing of downstream genes, such as tumour suppressor genes, may result in haploinsufficient expression through nonsense-mediated mRNA decay. Thus, spliceosomal mutations may, depending on the pattern of affected proteins, lead to similar functional effects on tumour suppressor genes as chromosomal deletions, epigenetic silencing or inactivating/hypomorphic mutations. The prognostic value of the most common mutations and their phenotypic association in the clinical setting is currently under investigation. It is likely that spliceosomal mutations may indicate sensitivity to spliceosome inhibitors applied in the form of a synthetic lethal approach. This review discusses the most current aspects of spliceosomal research in the context of haematological malignancies.	The removal by splicing of introns from the primary transcripts of most mammalian genes is an essential step in gene expression. Splicing is performed by large, complex ribonucleoprotein particles termed spliceosomes. Mammals contain two types that splice out mutually exclusive types of introns. However, the role of the minor spliceosome has been poorly studied. Recent reports have now shown that mutations in one minor spliceosomal snRNA, U4atac, are linked to a rare autosomal recessive developmental defect. In addition, very exciting recent results of exome deep-sequencing have found that recurrent, somatic, heterozygous mutations of other splicing factors occur at high frequencies in particular cancers and pre-cancerous conditions, suggesting that alterations in the core splicing machinery can contribute to tumorigenesis. Mis-splicing of crucial genes may underlie the pathologies of all of these diseases. Identifying these genes and understanding the mechanisms involved in their mis-splicing may lead to advancements in diagnosis and treatment.	Highly conserved sequences at the 5' splice site and branch site of U12-dependent introns are important determinants for splicing by U12-dependent spliceosomes. This study investigates the in vivo splicing phenotypes of mutations in the branch site consensus sequence of the U12-dependent intron F from a human NOL1 (P120) minigene. Intron F contains a fully consensus branch site sequence (UUCCUUAAC). Mutations at each position were analyzed for their effects on U12-dependent splicing in vivo. Mutations at most positions resulted in a significant reduction of correct U12-dependent splicing. Defects observed included increased unspliced RNA levels, the activation of cryptic U2-dependent 5' and 3' splice sites, and the activation of cryptic U12-dependent branch/3' splice sites. A strong correlation was observed between the predicted thermodynamic stability of the branch site: U12 snRNA interaction and correct U12-dependent splicing. The lack of a polypyrimidine tract between the branch site and 3' splice site of U12-dependent introns and the observed reliance on base-pairing interactions for correct U12-dependent splicing emphasize the importance of RNA/RNA interactions during U12-dependent intron recognition and proper splice site selection.	The X-ray crystal structure of an excised group II self-splicing intron was recently solved by the Pyle group. Here we review some of the notable features of this structure and what they may tell us about the catalytic active site of the group II ribozyme and potentially the spliceosome. The new structure validates the central role of domain V in both the structure and catalytic function of the ribozyme and resolves several outstanding puzzles raised by previous biochemical, genetic and structural studies. While lacking both exons as well as the cleavage sites and nucleophiles, the structure reveals how a network of tertiary interactions can position two divalent metal ions in a configuration that is ideal for catalysis.	Introns spliced by the U12-dependent minor spliceosome are divided into two classes based on their splice site dinucleotides. The /AU-AC/ class accounts for about one-third of U12-dependent introns in humans, while the /GU-AG/ class accounts for the other two-thirds. We have investigated the in vivo and in vitro splicing phenotypes of mutations in these dinucleotide sequences. A 5' A residue can splice to any 3' residue, although C is preferred. A 5' G residue can splice to 3' G or U residues with a preference for G. Little or no splicing was observed to 3' A or C residues. A 5' U or C residue is highly deleterious for U12-dependent splicing, although some combinations, notably 5' U to 3' U produced detectable spliced products. The dependence of 3' splice site activity on the identity of the 5' residue provides evidence for communication between the first and last nucleotides of the intron. Most mutants in the second position of the 5' splice site and the next to last position of the 3' splice site were defective for splicing. Double mutants of these residues showed no evidence of communication between these nucleotides. Varying the distance between the branch site and the 3' splice site dinucleotide in the /GU-AG/ class showed that a somewhat larger range of distances was functional than for the /AU-AC/ class. The optimum branch site to 3' splice site distance of 11-12 nucleotides appears to be the same for both classes.	U4 small nuclear RNA (snRNA) and U6 snRNA form a base-paired di-snRNP complex that is essential for pre-mRNA splicing of the major class of metazoan nuclear introns. The functionally analogous but highly diverged U4atac and U6atac snRNAs form a similar complex that is involved in splicing of the minor class of introns. Previous results with mutants of U6atac in which a substructure was replaced by the analogous structure from U6 snRNA suggested that wild-type U4 snRNA might be able to interact productively with the mutant U6atac snRNA. Here we show that a mutant U4 snRNA designed to base pair with a mutant U6atac snRNA can activate U12-dependent splicing when coexpressed in an in vivo genetic suppression assay. This genetic interaction could also be demonstrated in an in vitro crosslinking assay. These results show that a U4/U6atac di-snRNP can correctly splice a U12-dependent intron and suggest that the specificity for spliceosome type resides in the U6 and U6atac small nuclear ribonucleoproteins. Further experiments suggest that expression of a mutant U4 snRNA that can bind to wild-type U6atac snRNA alters the specificity of some splice sites, providing an evolutionary rationale for maintaining two U4-like snRNAs.	U4atac snRNA forms a base-paired complex with U6atac snRNA. Both snRNAs are required for the splicing of the minor U12-dependent class of eukaryotic nuclear introns. We have developed a new genetic suppression assay to investigate the in vivo roles of several regions of U4atac snRNA in U12-dependent splicing. We show that both the stem I and stem II regions, which have been proposed to pair with U6atac snRNA, are required for in vivo splicing. Splicing activity also requires U4atac sequences in the 5' stem-loop element that bind a 15.5 kDa protein that also binds to a similar region of U4 snRNA. In contrast, mutations in the region immediately following the stem I interaction region, as well as a deletion of the distal portion of the 3' stem-loop element, were active for splicing. Complete deletion of the 3' stem-loop element abolished in vivo splicing function as did a mutation of the Sm protein binding site. These results show that the in vivo sequence requirements of U4atac snRNA are similar to those described previously for U4 snRNA using in vitro assays and provide experimental support for models of the U4atac/U6atac snRNA interaction.	Both spliceosomal and self-splicing group II introns require the function of similar small, metal binding RNA stem-loop elements located in U6 or U6atac snRNAs of the spliceosome or domain 5 (D5) of group II introns. Here we report that two different D5 elements can functionally replace the U6atac snRNA stem-loop in an in vivo splicing assay. For efficient function in vivo, a single base pair from the upper helical section of the D5 sequence had to be removed. Introducing the equivalent base pair deletion into the D5 element of a group II intron reduced but did not eliminate self-splicing activity. Our results strengthen the case that these RNA elements play similar roles in the catalytic centers of both the spliceosome and a self-splicing ribozyme.	Alternative splicing increases the coding capacity of genes through the production of multiple protein isoforms by the conditional use of splice sites and exons. Many alternative splice sites are regulated by the presence of purine-rich splicing enhancer elements (ESEs) located in the downstream exon. Although the role of ESEs in alternative splicing of the major class U2-dependent introns is well established, no alternatively spliced minor class U12-dependent introns have so far been described. Although in vitro studies have shown that ESEs can stimulate splicing of individual U12-dependent introns, there is no direct evidence that the U12-dependent splicing system can respond to ESEs in vivo. To investigate the ability of U12-dependent introns to use alternative splice sites and to respond to ESEs in an in vivo context, we have constructed two sets of artificial minigenes with alternative splicing pathways and evaluated the effects of ESEs on their alternative splicing patterns. In minigenes with alternative U12-dependent 3' splice sites, a purine-rich ESE promotes splicing to the immediately upstream 3' splice site. As a control, a mutant ESE has no stimulatory effect. In minigene constructs with two adjacent U12-dependent introns, the predominant in vivo splicing pattern results in the skipping of the internal exon. Insertion of a purine-rich ESE into the internal exon promotes the inclusion of the internal exon. These results show that U12-dependent introns can participate in alternative splicing pathways and that U12-dependent splice sites can respond to enhancer elements in vivo.
Peachey, Neal	Ophthalmic Research	30040236	26241901	28356706	28490646	26149093	25429122	24395437	24106123	22896717	22865473	Overall retinal function can be monitored by recording the light-evoked response of the eye at the corneal surface. The major components of the electroretinogram (ERG) provide important information regarding the functional status of many retinal cell types including rod photoreceptors, cone photoreceptors, bipolar cells, and the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE). The ERG can be readily recorded from mice, and this unit describes procedures for mouse anesthesia and the use of stimulation and recording procedures for measuring ERGs that reflect the response properties of different retinal cell types. Through these, the mouse ERG provides a noninvasive approach to measure multiple aspects of outer retinal function, including the status of the initial rod and cone pathways, rod photoreceptor deactivation, rod dark adaptation, the photoreceptor-to-bipolar cell synapse, and the RPE. © 2018 by John Wiley &amp; Sons, Inc.	Electroretinogram (ERG) studies identified a new mouse line with a normal a-wave but lacking the b-wave component. The ERG phenotype of this new allele, nob7, matched closely that of mouse mutants for Grm6, Lrit3, Trpm1, and Nyx, which encode for proteins expressed in depolarizing bipolar cells (DBCs). To identify the underlying mutation, we first crossed nob7 mice with Grm6 nob3 mutants and measured the ERGs in offspring. All the offspring lacked the b-wave, indicating that nob7 is a new allele for Grm6: Grm6 nob7 . Sequence analyses of Grm6 nob7 cDNAs identified a 28 base pair insertion between exons 8 and 9, which would result in a frameshift mutation in the open reading frame that encodes the metabotropic glutamate receptor 6 (Grm6). Sequencing both the cDNA and genomic DNA from exon 8 and intron 8, respectively, from the Grm6 nob7 mouse revealed a G to A transition at the last position in exon 8. This mutation disrupts splicing and the normal exon 8 is extended by 28 base pairs, because splicing occurs 28 base pairs downstream at a cryptic splice donor. Consistent with the impact of the resulting frameshift mutation, there is a loss of mGluR6 protein (encoded by Grm6) from the dendritic tips of DBCs in the Grm6 nob7 retina. These results indicate that Grm6 nob7 is a new model of the complete form of congenital stationary night blindness, a human condition that has been linked to mutations of GRM6.	Familial exudative vitreoretinopathy (FEVR) is caused by mutations in the genes encoding low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein (LRP5) or its interacting partners, namely frizzled class receptor 4 (FZD4) and norrin cystine knot growth factor (NDP). Mouse models for Lrp5, Fzd4, and Ndp have proven to be important for understanding the retinal pathophysiology underlying FEVR and systemic abnormalities related to defective Wnt signaling. Here, we report a new mouse mutant, tvrm111B, which was identified by electroretinogram (ERG) screening of mice generated in the Jackson Laboratory Translational Vision Research Models (TVRM) mutagenesis program. ERGs were used to examine outer retinal physiology. The retinal vasculature was examined by in vivo retinal imaging, as well as by histology and immunohistochemistry. The tvrm111B locus was identified by genetic mapping of mice generated in a cross to DBA/2J, and subsequent sequencing analysis. Gene expression was examined by real-time PCR of retinal RNA. Bone mineral density (BMD) was examined by peripheral dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry. The tvrm111B allele is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait. Genetic mapping of the decreased ERG b-wave phenotype of tvrm111B mice localized the mutation to a region on chromosome 19 that included Lrp5. Sequencing of Lrp5 identified the insertion of a cytosine (c.4724_4725insC), which is predicted to cause a frameshift that disrupts the last three of five conserved PPPSPxS motifs in the cytoplasmic domain of LRP5, culminating in a premature termination. In addition to a reduced ERG b-wave, Lrp5<sup>tvrm111B</sup> homozygotes have low BMD and abnormal features of the retinal vasculature that have been reported previously in Lrp5 mutant mice, including persistent hyaloid vessels, leakage on fluorescein angiography, and an absence of the deep retinal capillary bed. The phenotype of the Lrp5<sup>tvrm111B</sup> mutant includes abnormalities of the retinal vasculature and of BMD. This model may be a useful resource to further our understanding of the biological role of LRP5 and to evaluate experimental therapies for FEVR or other conditions associated with LRP5 dysfunction.	GRM6 encodes the metabotropic glutamate receptor 6 (mGluR6) used by retinal depolarizing bipolar cells (DBCs). Mutations in GRM6 lead to DBC dysfunction and underlie the human condition autosomal recessive complete congenital stationary night blindness. Mouse mutants for Grm6 are important models for this condition. Here we report a new Grm6 mutant, identified in an electroretinogram (ERG) screen of mice maintained at The Jackson Laboratory. The Grm6<sup>nob8</sup> mouse has a reduced-amplitude b-wave component of the ERG, which reflects light-evoked DBC activity. Sequencing identified a missense mutation that converts a highly conserved methionine within the ligand binding domain to leucine (p.Met66Leu). Consistent with prior studies of Grm6 mutant mice, the laminar size and structure in the Grm6<sup>nob8</sup> retina were comparable to control. The Grm6<sup>nob8</sup> phenotype is distinguished from other Grm6 mutants that carry a null allele by a reduced but not absent ERG b-wave, decreased but present expression of mGluR6 at DBC dendritic tips, and mislocalization of mGluR6 to DBC somas. Consistent with a reduced but not absent b-wave, there were a subset of retinal ganglion cells whose responses to light onset have times to peak within the range of those in control retinas. These data indicate that the p.Met66Leu mutant mGluR6 is trafficked less than control. However, the mGluR6 that is localized to the DBC dendritic tips is able to initiate DBC signal transduction. The Grm6<sup>nob8</sup> mouse extends the Grm6 allelic series and will be useful for elucidating the role of mGluR6 in DBC signal transduction and in human disease.NEW &amp; NOTEWORTHY This article describes a mouse model of the human disease complete congenital stationary night blindness in which the mutation reduces but does not eliminate GRM6 expression and bipolar cell function, a distinct phenotype from that seen in other Grm6 mouse models.	CC chemokine ligand 2 (CCL2) recruits macrophages to reduce inflammatory responses. Decay-accelerating factor (DAF) is a membrane regulator of the classical and alternative pathways of complement activation. In view of the link between complement genes and retinal diseases, we evaluated the retinal phenotype of C57BL/6J mice and mice lacking Ccl2 and/or Daf1 at 12 months of age, using scanning laser ophthalmoscopic imaging, electroretinography (ERG), histology, immunohistochemistry, and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) analysis. In comparison to C57BL/6J mice, mutant mice had an increased number of autofluorescent foci, with the greatest number in the Ccl2(-/-)/Daf1(-/-) retina. ERG amplitudes in Ccl2(-/-)/Daf1(-/-), Ccl2(-/-) and Daf1(-/-) mice were reduced, with the greatest reduction in Ccl2(-/-)/Daf1(-/-) mice. TUNEL-positive cells were not seen in C57BL/6J retina, but were prevalent in the outer and inner nuclear layers of Ccl2(-/-)Daf1(-/-) mice and were present at reduced density in Ccl2(-/-) or Daf1(-/-) mice. Cell loss was most pronounced in the outer and inner nuclear layers of Ccl2(-/-)/Daf1(-/-) mice. The levels of the endoplasmic reticulum chaperone GPR78 and transcription factor ATF4 were significantly increased in the Ccl2(-/-)/Daf1(-/-) retina. In comparison to the C57BL/6J retina, the phosphorylation of NF-κB p65, p38, ERK and JNK was significantly upregulated while SIRT1 was significantly downregulated in the Ccl2(-/-)/Daf1(-/-) retina. Our results suggest that loss of Ccl2 and Daf1 causes retinal neuronal death and degeneration which is related to increased endoplasmic reticulum stress, oxidative stress and inflammation. 	In the diabetic retina, cellular changes in the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) and neurons occur before vision loss or diabetic retinopathy can be identified clinically. The precise etiologies of retinal pathology are poorly defined, and it remains unclear if the onset and progression of cellular dysfunction differ between type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Three mouse models were used to compare the time course of RPE involvement in type 1 and type 2 diabetes. C57BL/6J mice injected with streptozotocin (STZ mice) modeled type 1 diabetes, whereas Lepr(db/db) mice on both BKS and B6.BKS background strains modeled type 2 diabetes. Electroretinogram (ERG)-based techniques were used to measure light-evoked responses of the RPE (direct current-coupled ERG, dc-ERG) and the neural retina (a-wave, b-wave). Following onset of hyperglycemia, a-wave and b-wave amplitudes of STZ mice declined progressively and by equivalent degrees. Components of the dc-ERG were also altered, with the largest reduction seen in the c-wave. Lepr(db/db) mice on the BKS strain (BKS.Lepr) displayed sustained hyperglycemia and a small increase in insulin, whereas Lepr(db/db) mice on the B6.BKS background (B6.BKS.Lepr) were transiently hyperglycemic and displayed severe hyperinsulinemia. BKS.Lepr mice exhibited sustained reductions in the dc-ERG c-wave, fast oscillation, and off response that were not attributable to reduced photoreceptor activity; B6.BKS.Lepr mice displayed transient reductions in the c-wave and fast oscillation that correlated with hyperglycemia and magnitude of photoreceptor activity. In summary, all mouse models displayed altered RPE function concomitant with the onset of hyperglycemia. These results suggest that RPE function is directly reduced by elevated blood glucose levels. That RPE dysfunction was reversible and mitigated in hyperinsulinemic B6.BKS.Lepr mice provides insight into the underlying mechanism. 	The b-wave is a major component of the electroretinogram that reflects the activity of depolarizing bipolar cells (DBCs). The b-wave is used diagnostically to identify patients with defects in DBC signaling or in transmission from photoreceptors to DBCs. In mouse models, an abnormal b-wave has been used to demonstrate a critical role of a particular protein in the release of glutamate from photoreceptor terminals, in establishing the structure of the photoreceptor-to-DBC synapse, in DBC signal transduction, and also in DBC development, survival, or metabolic support. The purpose of this review is to summarize these models and how they have advanced our understanding of outer retinal function. 	To determine the molecular basis and the pathologic consequences of a chemically induced mutation in the translational vision research models 89 (tvrm89) mouse model with ERG defects. Mice from a G3 N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea mutagenesis program were screened for behavioral abnormalities and defects in retinal function by ERGs. The chromosomal position for the recessive tvrm89 mutation was determined in a genome-wide linkage analysis. The critical region was refined, and candidate genes were screened by direct sequencing. The tvrm89 phenotype was characterized by circling behavior, in vivo ocular imaging, detailed ERG-based studies of the retina and RPE, and histological analysis of these structures. The tvrm89 mutation was localized to a region on chromosome 9 containing Myo6. Sequencing identified a T→C point mutation in the codon for amino acid 480 in Myo6 that converts a leucine to a proline. This mutation does not confer a loss of protein expression levels; however, mice homozygous for the Myo6(tvrm89) mutation display an abnormal iris shape and attenuation of both strobe-flash ERGs and direct-current ERGs by 4 age weeks, neither of which is associated with photoreceptor loss. The tvrm89 phenotype mimics that reported for Myosin6-null mice, suggesting that the mutation confers a loss of myosin 6 protein function. The observation that homozygous Myo6(tvrm89) mice display reduced ERG a-wave and b-wave components, as well as components of the ERG attributed to RPE function, indicates that myosin 6 is necessary for the generation of proper responses of the outer retina to light.	Mutations in TRPM1 are found in humans with an autosomal recessive form of complete congenital stationary night blindness (cCSNB). The Trpm1(-/-) mouse has been an important animal model for this condition. Here we report a new mouse mutant, tvrm27, identified in a chemical mutagenesis screen. Genetic mapping of the no b-wave electroretinogram (ERG) phenotype of tvrm27 localized the mutation to a chromosomal region that included Trpm1. Complementation testing with Trpm1(-/-) mice confirmed a mutation in Trpm1. Sequencing identified a nucleotide change in exon 23, converting a highly conserved alanine within the pore domain to threonine (p.A1068T). Consistent with prior studies of Trpm1(-/-) mice, no anatomical changes were noted in the Trpm1(tvrm27/tvrm27) retina. The Trpm1(tvrm27/tvrm27) phenotype is distinguished from that of Trpm1(-/-) by the retention of TRPM1 expression on the dendritic tips of depolarizing bipolar cells (DBCs). While ERG b-wave amplitudes of Trpm1(+/-) heterozygotes are comparable to wild type, those of Trpm1(+/tvrm27) mice are reduced by 32%. A similar reduction in the response of Trpm1(+/tvrm27) DBCs to LY341495 or capsaicin is evident in whole cell recordings. These data indicate that the p.A1068T mutant TRPM1 acts as a dominant negative with respect to TRPM1 channel function. Furthermore, these data indicate that the number of functional TRPM1 channels at the DBC dendritic tips is a key factor in defining DBC response amplitude. The Trpm1(tvrm27/tvrm27) mutant will be useful for elucidating the role of TRPM1 in DBC signal transduction, for determining how Trpm1 mutations impact central visual processing, and for evaluating experimental therapies for cCSNB.	Mouse mutants for proteins expressed in the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex at the photoreceptor terminal have electroretinogram (ERG) b-waves with a delayed onset and time course. The b-wave is defined by the sum of PII generated by depolarizing bipolar cells and slow PIII generated by Müller glial cells. In this study, we evaluated the hypothesis that the abnormalities observed in one of these mutants, Large (vls) , are caused by abnormal response properties of slow PIII. To isolate slow PIII, we crossed the Large (vls) mutant to a mouse line (Gpr179 (nob5) ) that lacks the ERG b-wave but maintains normal photoreceptor function and in which retinal degeneration does not occur. ERGs were recorded to strobe flash stimuli after overnight dark adaptation. In comparison with control responses, the a-wave and slow PIII had comparable waveforms but were reduced in amplitude in Large (vls) mice. The magnitude of this reduction was comparable for these components, and across stimulus luminance. There was no stimulus condition where the amplitude of slow PIII was larger than control. The data obtained are inconsistent with the idea that the b-wave abnormalities noted in Large (vls) mutant mice are caused by abnormal response properties of slow PIII.
Perez, Dianne	Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences	27277698	26832303	23404509	23384050	22611178	22268811	21338248	19487244	19363165	17365508	The role of α1-adrenergic receptors (α1-ARs) and their subtypes in metabolism is not well known. Most previous studies were performed before the advent of transgenic mouse models and utilized transformed cell lines and poorly selective antagonists. We have now studied the metabolic regulation of the α1A- and α1B-AR subtypes in vivo using knock-out (KO) and transgenic mice that express a constitutively active mutant (CAM) form of the receptor, assessing subtype-selective functions. CAM mice increased glucose tolerance while KO mice display impaired glucose tolerance. CAM mice increased while KO decreased glucose uptake into white fat tissue and skeletal muscle with the CAM α1A-AR showing selective glucose uptake into the heart. Using indirect calorimetry, both CAM mice demonstrated increased whole body fatty acid oxidation, while KO mice preferentially oxidized carbohydrate. CAM α1A-AR mice displayed significantly decreased fasting plasma triglycerides and glucose levels while α1A-AR KO displayed increased levels of triglycerides and glucose. Both CAM mice displayed increased plasma levels of leptin while KO mice decreased leptin levels. Most metabolic effects were more efficacious with the α1A-AR subtype. Our results suggest that stimulation of α1-ARs results in a favorable metabolic profile of increased glucose tolerance, cardiac glucose uptake, leptin secretion and increased whole body lipid metabolism that may contribute to its previously recognized cardioprotective and neuroprotective benefits.	While α(1)-adrenergic receptors (ARs) have been previously shown to limit ischemic cardiac damage, the mechanisms remain unclear. Most previous studies utilized low oxygen conditions in addition to ischemic buffers with glucose deficiencies, but we discovered profound differences if the two conditions are separated. We assessed both mouse neonatal and adult myocytes and HL-1 cells in a series of assays assessing ischemic damage under hypoxic or low glucose conditions. We found that α(1)-AR stimulation protected against increased lactate dehydrogenase release or Annexin V(+) apoptosis under conditions that were due to low glucose concentration not to hypoxia. The α(1)-AR antagonist prazosin or nonselective protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitors blocked the protective effect. α(1)-AR stimulation increased (3)H-deoxyglucose uptake that was blocked with either an inhibitor to glucose transporter 1 or 4 (GLUT1 or GLUT4) or small interfering RNA (siRNA) against PKCδ. GLUT1/4 inhibition also blocked α(1)-AR-mediated protection from apoptosis. The PKC inhibitor rottlerin or siRNA against PKCδ blocked α(1)-AR stimulated GLUT1 or GLUT4 plasma membrane translocation. α(1)-AR stimulation increased plasma membrane concentration of either GLUT1 or GLUT4 in a time-dependent fashion. Transgenic mice overexpressing the α(1A)-AR but not α(1B)-AR mice displayed increased glucose uptake and increased GLUT1 and GLUT4 plasma membrane translocation in the adult heart while α(1A)-AR but not α(1B)-AR knockout mice displayed lowered glucose uptake and GLUT translocation. Our results suggest that α(1)-AR activation is anti-apoptotic and protective during cardiac ischemia due to glucose deprivation and not hypoxia by enhancing glucose uptake into the heart via PKCδ-mediated GLUT translocation that may be specific to the α(1A)-AR subtype.	The role of α₁-adrenergic receptors (ARs) in the regulation of cardiac hypertrophy is still unclear, because transgenic mice demonstrated hypertrophy or the lack of it despite high receptor overexpression. To further address the role of the α₁-ARs in cardiac hypertrophy, we analyzed unique transgenic mice that overexpress constitutively active mutation (CAM) α₁A-ARs or CAM α₁B-ARs under the regulation of large fragments of their native promoters. These constitutively active receptors are expressed in all tissues that endogenously express their wild-type counterparts as opposed to only myocyte-targeted transgenic mice. In this study, we discovered that CAM α₁A-AR mice in vivo have cardiac hypertrophy independent of changes in blood pressure, corroborating earlier studies, but in contrast to myocyte-targeted α₁A-AR mice. We also found cardiac hypertrophy in CAM α₁B-AR mice, in agreement with previous studies, but hypertrophy only developed in older mice. We also discovered unique α₁-AR-mediated hypertrophic signaling that was AR subtype-specific with CAM α₁A-AR mice secreting atrial naturietic factor and interleukin-6 (IL-6), whereas CAM α₁B-AR mice expressed activated nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB). These particular hypertrophic signals were blocked when the other AR subtype was coactivated. We also discovered that crossbreeding the two CAM models (double CAM α₁A/B-AR) inhibited the development of hypertrophy and was reversible with single receptor activation, suggesting that coactivation of the receptors can lead to novel antagonistic signal transduction. This was confirmed by demonstrating antagonistic signals that were even lower than normal controls in the double CAM α₁A/B-AR mice for p38, NF-κB, and the IL-6/glycoprotein 130/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 pathway. Because α₁A/B double knockout mice fail to develop hypertrophy in response to IL-6, our results suggest that IL-6 is a major mediator of α₁A-AR cardiac hypertrophy.	Abstract Therapeutics to treat human heart failure (HF) and the identification of proteins associated with HF are still limited. We analyzed α(1)-adrenergic receptor (AR) subtypes in human HF and performed proteomic analysis on more uniform samples to identify novel proteins associated with human HF. Six failing hearts with end-stage dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) and four non-failing heart controls were subjected to proteomic analysis. Out of 48 identified proteins, 26 proteins were redundant between samples. Ten of these 26 proteins were previously reported to be associated with HF. Of the newly identified proteins, we found several muscle proteins and mitochondrial/electron transport proteins, while novel were functionally similar to previous reports. However, we also found novel proteins involved in functional classes such as β-oxidation and G-protein coupled receptor signaling and desensitization not previously associated with HF. We also performed radioligand-binding studies on the heart samples and not only confirmed a large loss of β(1)-ARs in end-stage DCM, but also found a selective decrease in the α(1A)-AR subtype not previously reported. We have identified new proteins and functional categories associated with end-stage DCM. We also report that similar to the previously characterized loss of β(1)-AR in HF, there is also a concomitant loss of α(1A)-ARs, which are considered cardioprotective proteins.	The importance of adult neurogenesis has only recently been accepted, resulting in a completely new field of investigation within stem cell biology. The regulation and functional significance of adult neurogenesis is currently an area of highly active research. G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) have emerged as potential modulators of adult neurogenesis. GPCRs represent a class of proteins with significant clinical importance, because approximately 30% of all modern therapeutic treatments target these receptors. GPCRs bind to a large class of neurotransmitters and neuromodulators such as norepinephrine, dopamine, and serotonin. Besides their typical role in cellular communication, GPCRs are expressed on adult neural stem cells and their progenitors that relay specific signals to regulate the neurogenic process. This review summarizes the field of adult neurogenesis and its methods and specifies the roles of various GPCRs and their signal transduction pathways that are involved in the regulation of adult neural stem cells and their progenitors. Current evidence supporting adult neurogenesis as a model for self-repair in neuropathologic conditions, adult neural stem cell therapeutic strategies, and potential avenues for GPCR-based therapeutics are also discussed.	Previous studies demonstrated α₁-adrenergic receptors (ARs) increase STAT3 activation in transfected and non-cardiac primary cell lines. However, the mechanism used by α₁-ARs resulting in STAT3 activation is unknown. While other G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) can couple to STAT3, these mechanisms demonstrate coupling through SRC, TYK, Rac, or complex formation with Gq and used only transfected cell lines. Using normal and transgenic mice containing constitutively active mutations (CAM) of the α(1A)-AR subtype, neonatal mouse myocytes and whole hearts were analyzed for the mechanism to couple to STAT3 activation. α₁-ARs stimulated time-dependent increases in p-SRC, p-JAK2, and p-STAT3 in normal neonatal myocytes. Using various kinase inhibitors and siRNA, we determined that the α(1A)-AR coupled to STAT3 through distinct and unique pathways in neonatal myocytes. We found that PKCϵ inhibition decreased p-ERK and p-Ser STAT3 levels without affecting p-Tyr STAT3. In contrast, we found that PKCδ inhibition affected p-SRC and p-JAK2 resulting in decreased p-Tyr and p-Ser STAT3 levels. We suggest a novel α(1A)-AR mediated PKCϵ/ERK pathway that regulates the phosphorylation status of STAT3 at Ser-727 while PKCδ couples to SRC/JAK2 to affect Tyr-705 phosphorylation. Furthermore, this pathway has not been previously described in a GPCR system that couples to STAT3. Given cell survival and protective cardiac effects induced by PKC, STAT3 and ERK signaling, our results could explain the neuroprotective and cardiac protective pathways that are enhanced with α(1A)-AR agonism.	Sympathetic nervous system regulation by the α(1)-adrenergic receptor (AR) subtypes (α(1A), α(1B), α(1D)) is complex, whereby chronic activity can be either detrimental or protective for both heart and brain function. This review will summarize the evidence that this dual regulation can be mediated through the different α(1)-AR subtypes in the context of cardiac hypertrophy, heart failure, apoptosis, ischemic preconditioning, neurogenesis, locomotion, neurodegeneration, cognition, neuroplasticity, depression, anxiety, epilepsy, and mental illness.	The understanding of the function of alpha(1)-adrenergic receptors in the brain has been limited due to a lack of specific ligands and antibodies. We circumvented this problem by using transgenic mice engineered to overexpress either wild-type receptor tagged with enhanced green fluorescent protein or constitutively active mutant alpha(1)-adrenergic receptor subtypes in tissues in which they are normally expressed. We identified intriguing alpha(1A)-adrenergic receptor subtype-expressing cells with a migratory morphology in the adult subventricular zone that coexpressed markers of neural stem cell and/or progenitors. Incorporation of 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine in vivo increased in neurogenic areas in adult alpha(1A)-adrenergic receptor transgenic mice or normal mice given the alpha(1A)-adrenergic receptor-selective agonist, cirazoline. Neonatal neurospheres isolated from normal mice expressed a mixture of alpha(1)-adrenergic receptor subtypes, and stimulation of these receptors resulted in increased expression of the alpha(1B)-adrenergic receptor subtype, proneural basic helix-loop-helix transcription factors, and the differentiation and migration of neuronal progenitors for catecholaminergic neurons and interneurons. alpha(1)-Adrenergic receptor stimulation increased the apoptosis of astrocytes and regulated survival of neonatal neurons through phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase signaling. However, in adult normal neurospheres, alpha(1)-adrenergic receptor stimulation increased the expression of glial markers at the expense of neuronal differentiation. In vivo, S100-positive glial and betaIII tubulin neuronal progenitors colocalized with either alpha(1)-adrenergic receptor subtype in the olfactory bulb. Our results indicate that alpha(1)-adrenergic receptors can regulate both neurogenesis and gliogenesis that may be developmentally dependent. Our findings may lead to new therapies to treat neurodegenerative diseases.	Our previous studies have demonstrated that activation of alpha(1)-adrenergic receptors (ARs) increased interleukin-6 (IL-6) mRNA expression and protein secretion, which is probably an important yet unknown mechanism contributing to the regulation of cardiac function. Using Rat-1 fibroblasts stably transfected with the alpha(1A)-AR subtype and primary mouse neonatal cardiomyocytes, we elucidated the basic molecular mechanisms responsible for the alpha(1)-AR modulation of IL-6 expression. IL-6 mRNA production mediated by alpha(1)-AR peaked at 1 to 2 h. Studies of the mRNA decay rate indicated that alpha(1)-AR activation enhanced IL-6 mRNA stability. Analysis of IL-6 promoter activity using a series of deletion constructs indicated that alpha(1)-ARs enhanced IL-6 transcription through several transcriptional elements, including nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB). Inhibition of alpha(1)-AR mediated IL-6 production and secretion by actinomycin D and the increase of intracellular IL-6 levels by alpha(1)-AR activation suggest that alpha(1)-AR mediated IL-6 secretion through de novo synthesis. Both IL-6 transcription and protein secretion mediated by alpha(1)-ARs were significantly reduced by chemical inhibitors for p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and NF-kappaB and by a dominant-negative construct of p38 MAPK. Serum level of IL-6 was elevated in transgenic mice expressing a constitutively active mutant of the alpha(1A)-AR subtype but not in a similar mouse model expressing the alpha(1B)-AR subtype. Our results indicate that alpha(1)-ARs stimulated IL-6 expression and secretion through regulating both mRNA transcription and stability, involving p38 MAPK and NF-kappaB pathways.	The function and distribution of alpha1-adrenergic receptor (AR) subtypes in prostate cancer cells is well characterized. Previous studies have used RNA localization or low-avidity antibodies in tissue or cell lines to determine the alpha1-AR subtype and suggested that the alpha1A-AR is dominant. Two androgen-insensitive, human metastatic cancer cell lines DU145 and PC3 were used as well as the mouse TRAMP C1-C3 primary and clonal cell lines. The density of alpha1-ARs was determined by saturation binding and the distribution of the different alpha1-AR subtypes was examined by competition-binding experiments. In contrast to previous studies, the major alpha1-AR subtype in DU145, PC3 and all of the TRAMP cell lines is the alpha1B-AR. DU145 cells contained 100% of the alpha1B-AR subtype, whereas PC3 cells were composed of 21% alpha1 A-AR and 79% alpha1B-AR. TRAMP cell lines contained between 66% and 79% of the alpha1B-AR with minor fractions of the other two subtypes. Faster doubling time in the TRAMP cell lines correlated with decreasing alpha 1B-AR and increasing alpha1 A- and alpha1D-AR densities. Transfection with EGFP-tagged alpha1B-ARs revealed that localization was mainly intracellular, but the majority of the receptors translocated to the cell surface after extended preincubation (18 hr) with either agonist or antagonist. Localization was confirmed by ligand-binding studies and inositol phosphate assays where prolonged preincubation with either agonist and/or antagonist increased the density and function of alpha 1-ARs, suggesting that the native receptors were mostly intracellular and nonfunctional. Our studies indicate that alpha1B-ARs are the major alpha1-AR subtype expressed in DU145, PC3, and all TRAMP cell lines, but most of the receptor is localized in intracellular compartments in a nonfunctional state, which can be rescued upon prolonged incubation with any ligand.
Perkins, Brian	Ophthalmic Research	30970040	30009987	28118669	27720860	27571019	27273592	26427413	25144710	24698764	20207966	Mutations in the gene Centrosomal Protein 290 kDa (CEP290) result in multiple ciliopathies ranging from the neonatal lethal disorder Meckel-Gruber Syndrome to multi-systemic disorders such as Joubert Syndrome and Bardet-Biedl Syndrome to nonsyndromic diseases like Leber Congenital Amaurosis (LCA) and retinitis pigmentosa. Results from model organisms and human genetics studies, have suggest that mutations in genes encoding protein components of the transition zone (TZ) and other cilia-associated proteins can function as genetic modifiers and be a source for CEP290 pleiotropy. We investigated the zebrafish cep290fh297/fh297 mutant, which encodes a nonsense mutation (p.Q1217*). This mutant is viable as adults, exhibits scoliosis, and undergoes a slow, progressive cone degeneration. The cep290fh297/fh297 mutants showed partial mislocalization of the transmembrane protein rhodopsin but not of the prenylated proteins rhodopsin kinase (GRK1) or the rod transducin subunit GNB1. Surprisingly, photoreceptor degeneration did not trigger proliferation of Müller glia, but proliferation of rod progenitors in the outer nuclear layer was significantly increased. To determine if heterozygous mutations in other cilia genes could exacerbate retinal degeneration, we bred cep290fh297/fh297 mutants to arl13b, ahi1, and cc2d2a mutant zebrafish lines. While cep290fh297/fh297 mutants lacking a single allele of these genes did not exhibit accelerated photoreceptor degeneration, loss of one alleles of arl13b or ahi1 reduced visual performance in optokinetic response assays at 5 days post fertilization. Our results indicate that the cep290fh297/fh297 mutant is a useful model to study the role of genetic modifiers on photoreceptor degeneration in zebrafish and to explore how progressive photoreceptor degeneration influences regeneration in adult zebrafish.	Members of the Arf-like (Arl) family of small GTP-binding proteins regulate a number of cellular functions and play important roles in cilia structure and signaling. The small GTPase Arl13a is a close paralog to Arl13b, a small GTPase required for normal cilia formation that causes Joubert Syndrome when mutated. As mutation of arl13b causes a slow retinal degeneration in zebrafish (Song et al., 2016), we hypothesized that expression of arl13a may provide functional redundancy. We determined the expression domains of arl13a and arl13b during zebrafish development and examined subcellular localization by expression of fluorescence fusion proteins. Both genes are widely expressed during early cell division and gastrulation and Arl13a and Arl13b both localize to microtubules in ciliated and dividing cells of the early zebrafish embryo. Between 2 and 5 days post fertilization (dpf), arl13b is expressed in neural tissues while expression of arl13a is downregulated by 2 dpf and restricted to craniofacial structures. These results indicate that arl13a and arl13b have evolved different roles and that arl13a does not function in the zebrafish retina.	Joubert syndrome (JBTS) is an autosomal recessive ciliopathy with considerable phenotypic variability. In addition to central nervous system abnormalities, a subset of JBTS patients exhibit retinal dystrophy and/or kidney disease. Mutations in the AHI1 gene are causative for approximately 10% of all JBTS cases. The purpose of this study was to generate ahi1 mutant alleles in zebrafish and to characterize the retinal phenotypes. Zebrafish ahi1 mutants were generated using transcription activator-like effector nucleases (TALENs). Expression analysis was performed by whole-mount in situ hybridization. Anatomic and molecular characterization of photoreceptors was investigated by histology, electron microscopy, and immunohistochemistry. The optokinetic response (OKR) behavior assay was used to assess visual function. Kidney cilia were evaluated by whole-mount immunostaining. The ahi1lri46 mutation in zebrafish resulted in shorter cone outer segments but did not affect visual behavior at 5 days after fertilization (dpf). No defects in rod morphology or rhodopsin localization were observed at 5 dpf. By 5 months of age, cone degeneration and rhodopsin mislocalization in rod photoreceptors was observed. The connecting cilium formed normally and Cc2d2a and Cep290 localized properly. Distal pronephric duct cilia were absent in mutant fish; however, only 9% of ahi1 mutants had kidney cysts by 5 dpf, suggesting that the pronephros remained largely functional. The results indicate that Ahi1 is required for photoreceptor disc morphogenesis and outer segment maintenance in zebrafish.	Non-invasive imaging is an invaluable diagnostic tool in ophthalmology. Two imaging devices, the scanning laser ophthalmoscope (SLO) and spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SDOCT), emerged from the clinical realm to provide research scientists with a real-time view of ocular morphology in living animals. We utilized these two independent imaging modalities in a complementary manner to perform in vivo optical sectioning of the adult zebrafish retina. Due to the very high optical power of the zebrafish lens, the confocal depth of field is narrow, allowing for detailed en face views of specific retinal layers, including the cone mosaic. Moreover, we demonstrate that both native reflectance, as well as fluorescent features observed by SLO, can be combined with axial in-depth information obtained by SDOCT. These imaging approaches can be used to screen for ocular phenotypes and monitor retinal pathology in a non-invasive manner.	Mutations in the gene ARL13B cause the classical form of Joubert syndrome, an autosomal recessive ciliopathy with variable degrees of retinal degeneration. As second-site modifier alleles can contribute to retinal pathology in ciliopathies, animal models provide a unique platform to test how genetic interactions modulate specific phenotypes. In this study, we analyzed the zebrafish arl13b mutant for retinal degeneration and for epistatic relationships with the planar cell polarity protein (PCP) component vangl2. Photoreceptor and cilia structure was examined by light and electron microscopy. Immunohistochemistry was performed to examine ciliary markers. Genetic interactions were tested by pairwise crosses of heterozygous animals. Genetic mosaic animals were generated by blastula transplantation and analyzed by fluorescence microscopy. At 5 days after fertilization, photoreceptor outer segments were shorter in zebrafish arl13b-/- mutants compared to wild-type larvae, no overt signs of retinal degeneration were observed by light or electron microscopy. Starting at 14 days after fertilization (dpf) and continuing through 30 dpf, cells lacking Arl13b died following transplantation into wild-type host animals. Photoreceptors of arl13b-/-;vangl2-/- mutants were more compromised than the photoreceptors of single mutants. Finally, when grown within a wild-type retina, the vangl2-/- mutant cone photoreceptors displayed normal basal body positioning. We show that arl13b-/- mutants have shortened cilia and photoreceptor outer segments and exhibit a slow, progressive photoreceptor degeneration that occurs over weeks. The data suggest that loss of Arl13b leads to slow photoreceptor degeneration, but can be exacerbated by the loss of vangl2. Importantly, the data show that Arl13b can genetically and physically interact with Vangl2 and this association is important for normal photoreceptor structure. The loss of vangl2, however, does not affect basal body positioning.	Tail-anchored (TA) proteins contain a single hydrophobic domain at the C-terminus and are posttranslationally inserted into the ER membrane via the GET (guided entry of tail-anchored proteins) pathway. The role of the GET pathway in photoreceptors is unexplored. The goal of this study was to characterize the zebrafish pinball wizard mutant, which disrupts Wrb, a core component of the GET pathway. Electroretinography, optokinetic response measurements (OKR), immunohistochemistry, and electron microscopy analyses were employed to assess ribbon synapse function, protein expression, and ultrastructure in 5-day-old zebrafish larvae. Expression of wrb was investigated with real-time qRT-PCR and in situ hybridization. Mutation of wrb abolished the OKR and greatly diminished the ERG b-wave, but not the a-wave. Ribeye and SV2 were partially mislocalized in both photoreceptors and hair cells of wrb mutants. Fewer contacts were seen between photoreceptors and bipolar cells in wrb-/- mutants. Expression of wrb was observed throughout the nervous system and Wrb localized to the ER and synaptic region of photoreceptors. Morpholino knockdown of the cytosolic ATPase trc40, which targets TA proteins to the ER, also diminished the OKR. Overexpression of wrb fully restored contrast sensitivity in mutants, while overexpression of mutant wrbR73A, which cannot bind Trc40, did not. Proteins Wrb and Trc40 are required for synaptic transmission between photoreceptors and bipolar cells, indicating that TA protein insertion by the TRC pathway is a critical step in ribbon synapse assembly and function.	The photoreceptor outer segment is a specialized primary cilium, and anchoring of the basal body at the apical membrane is required for outer segment formation. We hypothesized that basal body localization and outer segment formation would require the microtubule motor dynein 1 and analyzed the zebrafish cannonball and mike oko mutants, which carry mutations in the heavy chain subunit of cytoplasmic dynein 1 (dync1h1) and the p150(Glued) subunit of Dynactin (dctn1a). The distribution of Rab6, a player in the post-Golgi trafficking of rhodopsin, was also examined. Basal body docking was unaffected in both mutants, but Rab6 expression was reduced. The results suggest that dynein 1 is dispensable for basal body docking but that outer segment defects may be due to defects in post-Golgi trafficking. 	Specification and development of the apical membrane in epithelial cells requires the function of polarity proteins, including Pard3 and an atypical protein kinase C (PrkC). Many epithelial cells possess microtubule-based organelles, known as cilia, that project from their apical surface and the membrane surrounding the cilium is contiguous with the apical cell membrane. Although cilia formation in cultured cells required Pard3, the in vivo requirement for Pard3 in cilia development remains unknown. The vertebrate photoreceptor outer segment represents a highly specialized cilia structure in which to identify factors necessary for apical and ciliary membrane formation. Pard3 and PrkC localized to distinct domains within vertebrate photoreceptors. Using partial morpholino knockdown, photo-morpholinos, and pharmacological approaches, the function of Pard3 and PrkC were found to be required for the formation of both the apical and ciliary membrane of vertebrate photoreceptors. Inhibition of Pard3 or PrkC activity significantly reduced the size of photoreceptor outer segments and resulted in mislocalization of rhodopsin. Suppression of Pard3 or PrkC also led to a reduction in cilia size and cilia number in Kupffer's Vesicle, which resulted in left-right asymmetry defects. Thus, the Par-PrkC complex functions in cilia formation in vivo and this likely reflects a general role in specifying non-ciliary and ciliary compartments of the apical domain. 	Mutations in myosin VIIa (MYO7A) cause Usher Syndrome 1B (USH1B), a disease characterized by the combination of sensorineural hearing loss and visual impairment termed retinitis pigmentosa (RP). Although the shaker-1 mouse model of USH1B exists, only minor defects in the retina have been observed during its lifespan. Previous studies of the zebrafish mariner mutant, which also carries a mutation in myo7aa, revealed balance and hearing defects in the mutants but the retinal phenotype has not been described. We found elevated cell death in the outer nuclear layer (ONL) of myo7aa(-/-) mutants. While myo7aa(-/-) mutants retained visual behaviors in the optokinetic reflex (OKR) assay, electroretinogram (ERG) recordings revealed a significant decrease in both a- and b-wave amplitudes in mutant animals, but not a change in ERG threshold sensitivity. Immunohistochemistry showed mislocalization of rod and blue cone opsins and reduced expression of rod-specific markers in the myo7aa(-/-) ONL, providing further evidence that the photoreceptor degeneration observed represents the initial stages of the RP. Further, constant light exposure resulted in widespread photoreceptor degeneration and the appearance of large holes in the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE). No differences were observed in the retinomotor movements of the photoreceptors or in melanosome migration within the RPE, suggesting that myo7aa(-/-) does not function in these processes in teleosts. These results indicate that the zebrafish myo7aa(-/-) mutant is a useful animal model for the RP seen in humans with USH1B. 	PURPOSE. Jeune's asphyxiating thoracic dystrophy (JATD) is an autosomal recessive disorder with symptoms of retinal degeneration, kidney cysts, and chondrodysplasia and results from mutations in the ift80 gene. This study was conducted to characterize zebrafish lacking ift80 function for photoreceptor degeneration and defects in ciliogenesis to establish zebrafish as a vertebrate model for visual dysfunction in JATD and to determine whether ift80 interacts genetically with Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) genes. METHODS. Zebrafish were injected with morpholinos (MOs) targeted to the ift80 gene. Retinas were analyzed by histology, transmission electron microscopy, and immunohistochemistry. Ear and kidney cilia were analyzed by whole-mount immunostaining. Intraflagellar transport (IFT) particle composition was subjected to Western blot analysis. Genetic interactions were tested by coinjection of MOs against ift80 and bbs4 or bbs8 followed by in situ hybridization. RESULTS. Zebrafish lacking ift80 function exhibited defects in photoreceptor outer segment formation and photoreceptor death. Staining with opsin antibodies revealed opsin mislocalization in both rods and cones. Ultrastructural analysis showed abnormal disc stacking and shortened photoreceptor outer segments. The kinocilia of the ear and motile cilia in the kidney were shorter and reduced in number. Western blot analysis revealed a slight increase in the stability of other IFT proteins. Coinjection of MOs against ift80 and BBS genes led to convergent-extension defects. CONCLUSIONS. Zebrafish lacking ift80 exhibited defects characteristic of JATD. Because the developing outer segments degenerated, Ift80 could possibly act as a maintenance factor for the IFT particle.
Piedimonte, Giovanni	Inflammation and Immunity	30575339	29329282	28834426	28701524	28500974	28215300	28178290	28140833	28135044	27740722	Preterm birth is a significant cause of infant morbidity and mortality, which are primarily the result of respiratory and neurodevelopmental complications. However, no objective biomarker is currently available to predict at birth the risk and severity of such complications. Thus, we sought to determine whether serum neurotrophins concentrations measured at birth correlate with risk for later development of bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) and long-term neurodevelopmental outcomes. This study prospectively included 223 newborns admitted to neonatal intensive care units (NICU) and divided into three groups: (i) preterm infants who developed BPD; (ii) preterm infants who did not develop BPD; (iii) term infants. An exploratory cohort was enrolled in West Virginia, followed by a validation cohort recruited in four NICUs in Ohio. Specimens for serum and tracheal neurotrophins concentrations were collected within 48 h of admission. Infants requiring a fraction of inspired oxygen &gt;0.21 for at least 28 days were diagnosed with BPD. Neurodevelopmental outcomes were extrapolated from Bayley Scales of Infant Development-Third Edition (BSID-III) administered at the 24-month follow-up visit. Serum brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) concentration at birth had significant negative correlation with later diagnosis of BPD (P = 0.011) and with duration of invasive ventilation and oxygen supplementation (P = 0.009 and 0.015, respectively). Serum nerve growth factor (NGF) concentration at birth had significant positive correlation with BSID-III cognitive and language composite scores at 24 months (P &lt; 0.001 and 0.010, respectively). These data suggest that serum neurotrophins concentrations measured at birth provide prognostic information on subsequent respiratory and neurodevelopmental outcomes.	BackgroundDespite decades that have passed since its discovery, accurate biomarkers of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) disease activity and effective therapeutic strategies are still lacking. The high-mobility group box type 1 (HMGB1) protein has been proposed as a possible link between RSV and immune system, but only limited information is currently available to support this hypothesis.MethodsExpression of HMGB1 gene and protein was analyzed by quantitative PCR, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), western blot, immunocytochemistry, and confocal microscopy in immortalized and primary human bronchial epithelial cells, as well as in rat pup lungs. The role of HMGB1 in RSV infection was explored using glycyrrhizin, a selective HMGB1 inhibitor.ResultsRSV infection strongly induced HMGB1 expression both in vitro and in vivo. Glycyrrhizin dose-dependently inhibited HMGB1 upregulation in both RSV-infected immortalized and primary human bronchial epithelial cells, and this effect was associated with significant reduction of viral replication.ConclusionOur data suggest that HMGB1 expression increases during RSV replication. This seems to have a critical pathogenic role as its selective inhibition virtually modified the infection. These observations provide further insight into the pathophysiology of RSV infection and uncover a potential biomarker and therapeutic target for the most common respiratory infection of infancy.	Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is the most common respiratory pathogen in infants and young children. From the nasopharyngeal or conjunctival mucosa of infected individuals, RSV spreads to the lower respiratory tract causing acute bronchiolitis and pneumonia after an incubation period of 4-6 days. In addition to its well-documented tropism for the airway epithelium, it has been shown previously that RSV can also spread hematogenously and efficiently infect extrapulmonary tissues of human hosts. Furthermore, it has been shown in animal models that RSV can spread transplacentally from the respiratory tract of a pregnant mother to the lungs of the fetus. This report describes a documented case of neonatal RSV infection strongly suggestive of prenatal transmission of this infection in humans from an infected mother to her offspring.	Cytotoxic and neuroinflammatory effects of TiO2 nanoparticles (TiO2-NP) in human airways are mediated by nerve growth factor (NGF), which is also implicated in the pathophysiology of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infection. We tested the hypothesis that exposure to TiO2-NP results in increased susceptibility to RSV infection and exacerbation of airway inflammation via NGF-mediated induction of autophagy in lower respiratory tract cells. Human primary bronchial epithelial cells were exposed to TiO2-NP for 24 h prior to infection with recombinant red RSV (rrRSV). Expression of NGF and its TrkA and p75<sup>NTR</sup> receptors was measured by real-time PCR and fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS). Autophagy was assessed by beclin-1 expression analysis. Cell death was studied by FACS after annexin V/propidium iodide staining. rrRSV infection efficiency more than doubled in human bronchial cells pre-exposed to TiO2-NP compared to controls. NGF and its TrkA receptor were upregulated in RSV-infected bronchial cells pre-exposed to TiO2-NP compared to controls exposed to either rrRSV or TiO2-NP alone. Silencing NGF gene expression with siRNA significantly inhibited rrRSV infection. rrRSV-infected cells pre-exposed to TiO2-NP also showed increase in necrotic cell death and reduction in apoptosis, together with 4.3-fold increase in expression of the early autophagosomal gene beclin-1. Pharmacological inhibition of beclin-1 by wortmannin resulted in increased apoptotic rate along with lower viral load. This study shows that TiO2-NP exposure enhances the infectivity of RSV in human bronchial epithelial cells by upregulating the NGF/TrkA axis. The mechanism of this interaction involves induction of autophagy promoting viral replication and necrotic cell death.	Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is the most common respiratory pathogen in infants and young children worldwide. Lower respiratory tract infection due to RSV is one of the most common causes of hospitalization for infants, especially those born premature or with chronic lung or heart disease. Furthermore, RSV infection is an important cause of morbidity in adults, particularly in the elderly and immunocompromised individuals. The acute phase of this infection is often followed by episodes of wheezing that recur for months or years and usually lead to a physician diagnosis of asthma. RSV was discovered more than 50 years ago, and despite extensive research to identify pharmacological therapies, the most effective management of this infection remains supportive care. The trial of a formalin-inactivated RSV vaccine in the 1960s resulted in priming the severe illness upon natural infection. Currently, Palivizumab is the only available option for RSV prophylaxis, and because of restricted clinical benefits and high costs, it has been limited to a group of high-risk infants. There are several ongoing trials in preclinical, Phase-I, Phase-II, or Phase-III clinical stages for RSV vaccine development based on various strategies. Here we review the existing available prophylactic options, the current stages of RSV vaccine clinical trials, different strategies, and major hurdles in the development of an effective RSV vaccine.	Allergic inflammation is the result of a specific pattern of cellular and humoral responses leading to the activation of the innate and adaptive immune system, which, in turn, results in physiological and structural changes affecting target tissues such as the airways and the skin. Eosinophil activation and the production of soluble mediators such as IgE antibodies are pivotal features in the pathophysiology of allergic diseases. In the past few years, however, convincing evidence has shown that neurons and other neurosensory structures are not only a target of the inflammatory process but also participate in the regulation of immune responses by actively releasing soluble mediators. The main products of these activated sensory neurons are a family of protein growth factors called neurotrophins. They were first isolated in the central nervous system and identified as important factors for the survival and differentiation of neurons during fetal and postnatal development as well as neuronal maintenance later in life. Four members of this family have been identified and well defined: nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin 3, and neurotrophin 4/5. Neurotrophins play a critical role in the bidirectional signaling mechanisms between immune cells and the neurosensory network structures in the airways and the skin. Pruritus and airway hyperresponsiveness, two major features of atopic dermatitis and asthma, respectively, are associated with the disruption of the neurosensory network activities. In this chapter, we provide a comprehensive description of the neuroimmune interactions underlying the pathophysiological mechanisms of allergic and inflammatory diseases.	Maternal viral infections can have pathological effects on the developing fetus which last long after birth. Recently, maternal-fetal transmission of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) was shown to cause postnatal airway hyperreactivity (AHR) during primary early-life reinfection; however, the influence of prenatal exposure to RSV on offspring airway immunity and smooth muscle contractility during recurrent postnatal reinfections remains unknown. Therefore, we sought to determine whether maternal RSV infection impairs specific aspects of cell-mediated offspring immunity during early-life reinfections and the mechanisms leading to AHR. Red fluorescent protein-expressing recombinant RSV (rrRSV) was inoculated into pregnant rat dams at midterm, followed by primary and secondary postnatal rrRSV inoculations of their offspring at early-life time points. Pups and weanlings were tested for specific lower airway leukocyte populations by flow cytometry; serum cytokine/chemokine concentrations by multiplex ELISA and neurotrophins concentrations by standard ELISA; and ex vivo lower airway smooth muscle (ASM) contraction by physiological tissue bath. Pups born to RSV-infected mothers displayed elevated total CD3+ T cells largely lacking CD4+ and CD8+ surface expression after both primary and secondary postnatal rrRSV infection. Cytokine/chemokine analyses revealed reduced IFN-γ, IL-2, IL-12, IL-17A, IL-18, and TNF-α, as well as elevated nerve growth factor (NGF) expression. Prenatal exposure to RSV also increased ASM reactivity and contractility during early-life rrRSV infection compared to non-exposed controls. We conclude that maternal RSV infection can predispose offspring to postnatal lower airways dysfunction by altering immunity development, NGF signaling, and ASM contraction during early-life RSV reinfections.	Environmental and occupational exposures to respirable ultrafine fractions of particulate matter (PM) have been implicated in the initiation and exacerbation of lung diseases. However, the precise mechanisms underlying production of cell damage and death attributed to nanoparticles (NP) on human airway epithelium are not fully understood. This study examined the role of neurotrophic pathways in NP-induced airway toxicity. Size and agglomeration of TiO2 nanoparticles (TiO2-NP) and fine (TiO2-FP) particles were measured by dynamic light scattering. Expression and signaling of key neurotrophic factors and receptors were assessed by real-time polymerase chain reaction, flow cytometry, immunostaining, and Western blot in various respiratory epithelial cells after exposure to TiO2-NP or TiO2-FP. Particle-induced cell death was measured by flow cytometry after annexin V/propidium iodide staining. The role of neurotrophin-dependent apoptotic pathways was analyzed with specific blocking antibodies or siRNAs. Exposure of human epithelial cells to TiO2-NP enhanced interleukin (IL)-1α synthesis, as well as nerve growth factor (NGF) gene expression and protein levels, specifically the precursor form (proNGF). TiO2-NP exposure also increased expression of p75<sup>NRF</sup> receptor genes. These neurotropic factor and receptor responses were stimulated by IL-1α and abolished by its specific receptor antagonist (IL-1-ra). TiO2-NP also increased JNK phosphorylation and apoptosis, which was prevented by anti-p75<sup>NRF</sup> or NGFsiRNA. Data demonstrated that TiO2-NP exerted adverse effects in the respiratory tract by inducing unbalanced overexpression of immature neurotrophins, which led to apoptotic death of epithelial cells signaled through the death receptor p75<sup>NTR</sup>. This may result in airway inflammation and hyperreactivity after exposure to TiO2-NP.	During the Fall of 2014, numerous children were hospitalized with asthma or respiratory distress related to Enterovirus D68 (EV-D68). A large proportion initially tested positive for rhinovirus. During this period our laboratory noted a cross-reactivity between EV-D68 and the rhinovirus component of the GenMark multiplex respiratory viral panel. Many other laboratories used assays not designed to distinguish these Picornoviridae. To compare the presentation and outcomes of patients with rhinovirus and EV-D68, 103 GenMark rhinovirus positive nasopharyngeal swabs from hospitalized children were retested for EV-D68. EV-D68 positive patients versus EV-D68 negative patients were more likely to have a history of asthma (33.3% vs. 11.0%, P = 0.02) and to present with acute respiratory illness (66.7% vs. 40.2%, P = 0.048), especially status asthmaticus (47.6% vs. 2.4%, P &lt; 0.001). On admission they had more wheezing, respiratory distress, and lower respiratory tract involvement, and were more likely to be treated with steroids and discharged home on asthma medications. Respiratory viral coinfection was less common in EV-D68 positive vs EV-D68 negative patients. In patients without a respiratory viral coinfection the overall findings were similar. Patients with EV-D68 versus rhinovirus were more likely to have a history of asthma, to present with status asthmaticus, to wheeze on admission, and to receive treatment with asthma medications in hospital and at discharge. The inability of common assays to distinguish EV-D68 from rhinoviruses raises the possibility that the role of EV-D68 as a viral trigger of asthma has been under appreciated. Pediatr Pulmonol. 2017;52:827-832. © 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.	Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is the most common cause of respiratory illness in infants and young children, but this virus is also capable of re-infecting adults throughout life. Universal precautions to prevent its transmission consist of gown and glove use, but masks and goggles are not routinely required because it is believed that RSV is unlikely to be transmitted by the airborne route. Our hypothesis was that RSV is present in respirable-size particles aerosolized by patients seen in a pediatric acute care setting. RSV-laden particles were captured using stationary 2-stage bioaerosol cyclone samplers. Aerosol particles were separated into three size fractions (&lt;1, 1-4.1, and ≥4.1 μm) and were tested for the presence of RSV RNA by real-time PCR. Samplers were set 152 cm (&quot;upper&quot;) and 102 cm (&quot;lower&quot;) above the floor in each of two examination rooms. Of the total, 554 samples collected over 48 days, only 13 (or 2.3%) were positive for RSV. More than 90% of the RSV-laden aerosol particles were in the ≥4.1 μm size range, which typically settle to the ground within minutes, whereas only one sample (or 8%) was positive for particles in the 1-4.1 μm respirable size range. Our data indicate that airborne RSV-laden particles can be detected in pediatric outpatient clinics during the epidemic peak. However, RSV airborne transmission is highly inefficient. Thus, the logistical and financial implications of mandating the use of masks and goggles to prevent RSV spread seem unwarranted in this setting. Pediatr Pulmonol. 2017;52:684-688. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Plow, Edward	Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences	29743493	29467183	29138119	28799653	28687620	28652408	27500205	27044892	25609252	24876560	Metastasis is the main cause of death in cancer patients, including breast cancer (BC). Despite recent progress in understanding the biological and molecular determinants of BC metastasis, effective therapeutic treatments are yet to be developed. Among the multitude of molecular mechanisms that regulate cancer metastasis, the epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) program plays a key role in the activation of the biological steps leading to the metastatic phenotype. Kindlin-2 has been associated with the pathogenesis of several types of cancers, including BC. The role of Kindlin-2 in the regulation of BC metastasis, and to a lesser extent in EMT is not well understood. In this study, we show that Kindlin-2 is closely associated with the development of the metastatic phenotype in BC. We report that knockout of Kindlin-2 in either human or mouse BC cells, significantly inhibits metastasis in both human and mouse models of BC metastasis. We also report that the Kindlin-2-mediated inhibition of metastasis is the result of inhibition of expression of key molecular markers of the EMT program. Mechanistically, we show that miR-200b, a master regulator of EMT, directly targets and inhibits the expression of Kindlin-2, leading to the subsequent inhibition of EMT and metastasis. Together, our data support the targeting of Kindlin-2 as a therapeutic strategy against BC metastasis.	Current antithrombotic drugs, including widely used antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants, are associated with significant bleeding risk. Emerging experimental evidence suggests that the molecular and cellular mechanisms of hemostasis and thrombosis can be separated, thereby increasing the possibility of new antithrombotic therapeutic targets with reduced bleeding risk. We review new coagulation and platelet targets and highlight the interaction between integrin αMβ2 (Mac-1, CD11b/CD18) on leukocytes and GPIbα on platelets that seems to distinguish thrombosis from hemostasis.	Thrombospondin-4 (TSP-4) belongs to the thrombospondin protein family that consists of five highly homologous members. A number of novel functions have been recently assigned to TSP-4 in cardiovascular and nervous systems, inflammation, cancer, and the motor unit, which have attracted attention to this extracellular matrix (ECM) protein. These newly discovered functions set TSP-4 apart from other thrombospondins. For example, TSP-4 promotes angiogenesis while other TSPs either prevent it or have no effect on new blood vessel growth; TSP-4 reduces fibrosis and collagen production while TSP-1 and TSP-2 promote fibrosis in several organs; unlike other TSPs, TSP-4 appears to have some structural functions in ECM. The current information about TSP-4 functions in different organs and physiological systems suggests that this evolutionary conserved protein is a major regulator of the extracellular matrix (ECM) organization and production and tissue remodeling during the embryonic development and response to injury. In this review article, we summarize the properties and functions of TSP-4 and discuss its role in tissue remodeling.	A reduction in Kindlin-2 levels in endothelial cells compromises vascular barrier function. Kindlin-2 is a previously unrecognized component of endothelial adherens junctions. By interacting directly and simultaneously with β- or γ-catenin and cortical actin filaments, Kindlin-2 stabilizes adherens junctions. The Kindlin-2 binding sites for β- and γ-catenin reside within its F1 and F3 subdomains. Although Kindlin-2 does not associate directly with tight junctions, its downregulation also destabilizes these junctions. Thus, impairment of both adherens and tight junctions may contribute to enhanced leakiness of vasculature in Kindlin-2<sup>+/-</sup> mice. Endothelial cells (EC) establish a physical barrier between the blood and surrounding tissue. Impairment of this barrier can occur during inflammation, ischaemia or sepsis and cause severe organ dysfunction. Kindlin-2, which is primarily recognized as a focal adhesion protein in EC, was not anticipated to have a role in vascular barrier. We tested the role of Kindlin-2 in regulating vascular integrity using several different approaches to decrease Kindlin-2 levels in EC. Reduced levels of Kindlin-2 in Kindlin-2<sup>+/-</sup> mice aortic endothelial cells (MAECs) from these mice, and human umbilical ECs (HUVEC) treated with Kindlin-2 siRNA showed enhanced basal and platelet-activating factor (PAF) or lipopolysaccharide-stimulated vascular leakage compared to wild-type (WT) counterparts. PAF preferentially disrupted the Kindlin-2<sup>+/-</sup> MAECs barrier to BSA and dextran and reduced transendothelial resistance compared to WT cells. Kindlin-2 co-localized and co-immunoprecipitated with vascular endothelial cadherin-based complexes, including β- and γ-catenin and actin, components of adherens junctions (AJ). Direct interaction of Kindlin-2 with β- and γ-catenin and actin was demonstrated in co-immunoprecipitation and surface plasmon resonance experiments. In thrombin-stimulated HUVECs, Kindlin-2 and cortical actin dissociated from stable AJs and redistributed to radial actin stress fibres of remodelling focal AJs. The β- and γ-catenin binding site resides within the F1 and F3 subdomains of Kindlin-2 but not the integrin binding site in F3. These results establish a previously unrecognized and vital role of Kindlin-2 with respect to maintaining the vascular barrier by linking Vascuar endothelial cadherin-based complexes to cortical actin and thereby stabilizing AJ.	Interplay between tumor cells and host cells in the tumor microenvironment dictates the development of all cancers. In breast cancer, malignant cells educate host macrophages to adopt a protumorigenic phenotype. In this study, we show how the integrin-regulatory protein kindlin-2 (FERMT2) promotes metastatic progression of breast cancer through the recruitment and subversion of host macrophages. Kindlin-2 expression was elevated in breast cancer biopsy tissues where its levels correlated with reduced patient survival. On the basis of these observations, we used CRISPR/Cas9 technology to ablate Kindlin-2 expression in human MDA-MB-231 and murine 4T1 breast cancer cells. Kindlin-2 deficiency inhibited invasive and migratory properties in vitro without affecting proliferation rates. However, in vivo tumor outgrowth was inhibited by &gt;80% in a manner associated with reduced macrophage infiltration and secretion of the macrophage attractant and growth factor colony-stimulating factor-1 (CSF-1). The observed loss of CSF-1 appeared to be caused by a more proximal deficiency in TGFβ-dependent signaling in Kindlin-2-deficient cells. Collectively, our results illuminate a Kindlin-2/TGFβ/CSF-1 signaling axis employed by breast cancer cells to capture host macrophage functions that drive tumor progression. Cancer Res; 77(18); 5129-41. ©2017 AACR.	Kindlin-2 (K2), a 4.1R-ezrin-radixin-moesin (FERM) domain adaptor protein, mediates numerous cellular responses, including integrin activation. The C-terminal 15-amino acid sequence of K2 is remarkably conserved across species but is absent in canonical FERM proteins, including talin. In CHO cells expressing integrin αIIbβ3, co-expression of K2 with talin head domain resulted in robust integrin activation, but this co-activation was lost after deletion of as few as seven amino acids from the K2 C terminus. This dependence on the C terminus was also observed in activation of endogenous αIIbβ3 in human erythroleukemia (HEL) cells and β1 integrin activation in macrophage-like RAW264.1 cells. Kindlin-1 (K1) exhibited a similar dependence on its C terminus for integrin activation. Expression of the K2 C terminus as an extension of membrane-anchored P-selectin glycoprotein ligand-1 (PSGL-1) inhibited integrin-dependent cell spreading. Deletion of the K2 C terminus did not affect its binding to the integrin β3 cytoplasmic tail, but combined biochemical and NMR analyses indicated that it can insert into the F2 subdomain. We suggest that this insertion determines the topology of the K2 FERM domain, and its deletion may affect the positioning of the membrane-binding functions of the F2 subdomain and the integrin-binding properties of its F3 subdomain. Free C-terminal peptide can still bind to K2 and displace the endogenous K2 C terminus but may not restore the conformation needed for integrin co-activation. Our findings indicate that the extreme C terminus of K2 is essential for integrin co-activation and highlight the importance of an atypical architecture of the K2 FERM domain in regulating integrin activation.	Kindlins are 4.1-ezrin-ridixin-moesin (FERM) domain containing proteins. There are three kindlins in mammals, which share high sequence identity. Kindlin-1 is expressed primarily in epithelial cells, kindlin-2 is widely distributed and is particularly abundant in adherent cells, and kindlin-3 is expressed primarily in hematopoietic cells. These distributions are not exclusive; some cells express multiple kindlins, and transformed cells often exhibit aberrant expression, both in the isoforms and the levels of kindlins. Great interest in the kindlins has emerged from the recognition that they play major roles in controlling integrin function. In vitro studies, in vivo studies of mice deficient in kindlins, and studies of patients with genetic deficiencies of kindlins have clearly established that they regulate the capacity of integrins to mediate their functions. Kindlins are adaptor proteins; their function emanate from their interaction with binding partners, including the cytoplasmic tails of integrins and components of the actin cytoskeleton. The purpose of this review is to provide a brief overview of kindlin structure and function, a consideration of their binding partners, and then to focus on the relationship of each kindlin family member with cancer. In view of many correlations of kindlin expression levels and neoplasia and the known association of integrins with tumor progression and metastasis, we consider whether regulation of kindlins or their function would be attractive targets for treatment of cancer.	Reduced levels of kindlin-2 (K2) in endothelial cells derived from K2(+/-)mice or C2C12 myoblastoid cells treated with K2 siRNA showed disorganization of their actin cytoskeleton and decreased spreading. These marked changes led us to examine direct binding between K2 and actin. Purified K2 interacts with F-actin in cosedimentation and surface plasmon resonance analyses and induces actin aggregation. We further find that the F0 domain of K2 binds actin. A mutation, LK(47)/AA, within a predicted actin binding site (ABS) of F0 diminishes its interaction with actin by approximately fivefold. Wild-type K2 and K2 bearing the LK(47)/AA mutation were equivalent in their ability to coactivate integrin αIIbβ3 in a CHO cell system when coexpressed with talin. However, K2-LK(47)/AA exhibited a diminished ability to support cell spreading and actin organization compared with wild-type K2. The presence of an ABS in F0 of K2 that influences outside-in signaling across integrins establishes a new foundation for considering how kindlins might regulate cellular responses. 	The contributions of integrins to cellular responses depend upon their activation, which is regulated by binding of proteins to their cytoplasmic tails. Kindlins are integrin cytoplasmic tail binding partners and are essential for optimal integrin activation, and kindlin-3 fulfills this role in hematopoietic cells. Here, we used human platelets and human erythroleukemia (HEL) cells, which express integrin αIIbβ3, to investigate whether phosphorylation of kindlin-3 regulates integrin activation. When HEL cells were stimulated with thrombopoietin or phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA), αIIbβ3 became activated as evidenced by binding of an activation-specific monoclonal antibody and soluble fibrinogen, adherence and spreading on fibrinogen, colocalization of β3 integrin and kindlin-3 in focal adhesions, and enhanced β3 integrin-kindlin-3 association in immunoprecipitates. Kindlin-3 knockdown impaired adhesion and spreading on fibrinogen. Stimulation of HEL cells with agonists significantly increased kindlin-3 phosphorylation as detected by mass spectrometric sequencing. Thr(482) or Ser(484) was identified as a phosphorylation site, which resides in a sequence not conserved in kindlin-1 or kindlin-2. These same residues were phosphorylated in kindlin-3 when platelets were stimulated with thrombin. When expressed in HEL cells, T482A/S484A kindlin-3 decreased soluble ligand binding and cell spreading on fibrinogen compared with wild-type kindlin-3. A membrane-permeable peptide containing residues 476-485 of kindlin-3 was introduced into HEL cells and platelets; adhesion and spreading of both cell types were blunted compared with a scrambled control peptide. These data identify a role of kindlin-3 phosphorylation in integrin β3 activation and provide a basis for functional differences between kindlin-3 and the two other kindlin paralogs. 	The phagocytic function of macrophages plays a pivotal role in eliminating apoptotic cells and invading pathogens. Evidence implicating plasminogen (Plg), the zymogen of plasmin, in phagocytosis is extremely limited with the most recent in vitro study showing that plasmin acts on prey cells rather than on macrophages. Here, we use apoptotic thymocytes and immunoglobulin opsonized bodies to show that Plg exerts a profound effect on macrophage-mediated phagocytosis in vitro and in vivo. Plg enhanced the uptake of these prey by J774A.1 macrophage-like cells by 3.5- to fivefold Plg receptors and plasmin proteolytic activity were required for phagocytosis of both preys. Compared with Plg(+/+) mice, Plg(-/-) mice exhibited a 60% delay in clearance of apoptotic thymocytes by spleen and an 85% reduction in uptake by peritoneal macrophages. Phagocytosis of antibody-mediated erythrocyte clearance by liver Kupffer cells was reduced by 90% in Plg(-/-) mice compared with Plg(+/+) mice. A gene array of splenic and hepatic tissues from Plg(-/-) and Plg(+/+) mice showed downregulation of numerous genes in Plg(-/-) mice involved in phagocytosis and regulation of phagocytic gene expression was confirmed in macrophage-like cells. Thus, Plg may play an important role in innate immunity by changing expression of genes that contribute to phagocytosis. 
Plow, Ela	Biomedical Engineering	29563050	28784042	28662931	28607523	28402865	28142257	28117211	28091708	27838275	27045553	NA	Our goal was to determine if pairing transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) with rehabilitation for two weeks could augment adaptive plasticity offered by these residual pathways to elicit longer-lasting improvements in motor function in incomplete spinal cord injury (iSCI). Longitudinal, randomized, controlled, double-blinded cohort study. Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio, USA. Eight male subjects with chronic incomplete motor tetraplegia. Massed practice (MP) training with or without tDCS for 2 hrs, 5 times a week. We assessed neurophysiologic and functional outcomes before, after and three months following intervention. Neurophysiologic measures were collected with transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). TMS measures included excitability, representational volume, area and distribution of a weaker and stronger muscle motor map. Functional assessments included a manual muscle test (MMT), upper extremity motor score (UEMS), action research arm test (ARAT) and nine hole peg test (NHPT). We observed that subjects receiving training paired with tDCS had more increased strength of weak proximal (15% vs 10%), wrist (22% vs 10%) and hand (39% vs. 16%) muscles immediately and three months after intervention compared to the sham group. Our observed changes in muscle strength were related to decreases in strong muscle map volume (r=0.851), reduced weak muscle excitability (r=0.808), a more focused weak muscle motor map (r=0.675) and movement of weak muscle motor map (r=0.935). Overall, our results encourage the establishment of larger clinical trials to confirm the potential benefit of pairing tDCS with training to improve the effectiveness of rehabilitation interventions for individuals with SCI. NCT01539109.	NA	NA	The standard approach to brain stimulation in stroke is based on the premise that ipsilesional M1 (iM1) is important for motor function of the paretic upper limb, while contralesional cortices compete with iM1. Therefore, the approach typically advocates facilitating iM1 and/or inhibiting contralesional M1 (cM1). But, this approach fails to elicit much improvement in severely affected patients, who on account of extensive damage to ipsilesional pathways, cannot rely on iM1. These patients are believed to instead rely on the undamaged cortices, especially the contralesional dorsal premotor cortex (cPMd), for support of function of the paretic limb. Here, we tested for the first time whether facilitation of cPMd could improve paretic limb function in severely affected patients, and if a cut-off could be identified to separate responders to cPMd from responders to the standard approach to stimulation. In a randomized, sham-controlled crossover study, fifteen patients received the standard approach of stimulation involving inhibition of cM1 and a new approach involving facilitation of cPMd using repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS). Patients also received rTMS to control areas. At baseline, impairment [Upper Extremity Fugl-Meyer (UEFMPROXIMAL, max=36)] and damage to pathways [fractional anisotropy (FA)] was measured. We measured changes in time to perform proximal paretic limb reaching, and neurophysiology using TMS. Facilitation of cPMd generated more improvement in severely affected patients, who had experienced greater damage and impairment than a cut-off value of FA (0.5) and UEFMPROXIMAL (26-28). The standard approach instead generated more improvement in mildly affected patients. Responders to cPMd showed alleviation of interhemispheric competition imposed on iM1, while responders to the standard approach showed gains in ipsilesional excitability in association with improvement. A preliminary cut-off level of severity separated responders for standard approach vs. facilitation of cPMd. Cut-offs identified here could help select candidates for tailored stimulation in future studies so patients in all ranges of severity could potentially achieve maximum benefit in function of the paretic upper limb.	The pain matrix is comprised of an extensive network of brain structures involved in sensory and/or affective information processing. The thalamus is a key structure constituting the pain matrix. The thalamus serves as a relay center receiving information from multiple ascending pathways and relating information to and from multiple cortical areas. However, it is unknown how thalamocortical networks specific to sensory-affective information processing are functionally integrated. Here, in a proof-of-concept study in healthy humans, we aimed to understand this connectivity using transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) targeting primary motor (M1) or dorsolateral prefrontal cortices (DLPFC). We compared changes in functional connectivity (FC) with DLPFC tDCS to changes in FC with M1 tDCS. FC changes were also compared to further investigate its relation with individual's baseline experience of pain. We hypothesized that resting-state FC would change based on tDCS location and would represent known thalamocortical networks. Ten right-handed individuals received a single application of anodal tDCS (1 mA, 20 min) to right M1 and DLPFC in a single-blind, sham-controlled crossover study. FC changes were studied between ventroposterolateral (VPL), the sensory nucleus of thalamus, and cortical areas involved in sensory information processing and between medial dorsal (MD), the affective nucleus, and cortical areas involved in affective information processing. Individual's perception of pain at baseline was assessed using cutaneous heat pain stimuli. We found that anodal M1 tDCS and anodal DLPFC tDCS both increased FC between VPL and sensorimotor cortices, although FC effects were greater with M1 tDCS. Similarly, anodal M1 tDCS and anodal DLPFC tDCS both increased FC between MD and motor cortices, but only DLPFC tDCS modulated FC between MD and affective cortices, like DLPFC. Our findings suggest that M1 stimulation primarily modulates FC of sensory networks, whereas DLPFC stimulation modulates FC of both sensory and affective networks. Our findings when replicated in a larger group of individuals could provide useful evidence that may inform future studies on pain to differentiate between effects of M1 and DLPFC stimulation. Notably, our finding that individuals with high baseline pain thresholds experience greater FC changes with DLPFC tDCS implies the role of DLPFC in pain modulation, particularly pain tolerance.	A high proportion of patients with stroke do not qualify for repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) clinical studies due to the presence of metallic stents. The ultimate concern is that any metal could become heated due to eddy currents. However, to date, no clinical safety data are available regarding the risk of metallic stents heating with rTMS. We tested the safety of common rTMS protocols (1 Hz and 10 Hz) with stents used commonly in stroke, nitinol and elgiloy. In our method, stents were tested in gelled saline at 2 different locations: at the center and at the lobe of the coil. In addition, at each location, stent heating was evaluated in 3 different orientations: parallel to the long axis of coil, parallel to the short axis of the coil, and perpendicular to the plane of the coil. We found that stents did not heat to more than 1°C with either 1 Hz rTMS or 10 Hz rTMS in any configuration or orientation. Heating in general was greater at the lobe when the stent was oriented perpendicularly. Our study represents a new method for ex vivo quantification of stent heating. We have found that heating of stents was well below the Food and Drug Administration standards of 2°C. Thus, our study paves the way for in vivo testing of rTMS (≤10 Hz) in the presence of implanted magnetic resonance imaging-compatible stents in animal studies. When planning human safety studies though, geometry, orientation, and location relative to the coil would be important to consider as well.	Motor overflow, typically described in the context of unimanual movements, refers to the natural tendency for a 'resting' limb to move during movement of the opposite limb and is thought to be influenced by inter-hemispheric interactions and intra-cortical networks within the 'resting' hemisphere. It is currently unknown, however, how motor overflow contributes to asymmetric force coordination task accuracy, referred to as bimanual interference, as there is need to generate unequal forces and corticospinal output for each limb. Here, we assessed motor overflow via motor evoked potentials (MEPs) and the regulation of motor overflow via inter-hemispheric inhibition (IHI) and short-intra-cortical inhibition (SICI) using transcranial magnetic stimulation in the presence of unimanual and bimanual isometric force production. All outcomes were measured in the left first dorsal interosseous (test hand) muscle, which maintained 30% maximal voluntary contraction (MVC), while the right hand (conditioning hand) was maintained at rest, 10, 30, or 70% of its MVC. We have found that as higher forces are generated with the conditioning hand, MEP amplitudes at the active test hand decreased and inter-hemispheric inhibition increased, suggesting reduced motor overflow in the presence of bimanual asymmetric forces. Furthermore, we found that subjects with less motor overflow (i.e., reduced MEP amplitudes in the test hemisphere) demonstrated poorer accuracy in maintaining 30% MVC across all conditions. These findings suggest that motor overflow may serve as an adaptive substrate to support bimanual asymmetric force coordination.	The interhemispheric competition hypothesis attributes the distribution of selective attention to a balance of mutual inhibition between homotopic, interhemispheric connections in parietal cortex (Kinsbourne 1977; Battelli et al., 2009). In support of this hypothesis, repetitive inhibitory TMS over right parietal cortex in healthy individuals rapidly induces interhemispheric imbalance in cortical activity that spreads beyond the site of stimulation (Plow et al., 2014). Behaviorally, the impacts of inhibitory rTMS may be long delayed from the onset of stimulation, as much as 30 minutes (Agosta et al., 2014; Hubl et al., 2008). In this study, we examine the temporal dynamics of inhibitory rTMS on cortical network integrity that supports sustained visual attention. Healthy individuals received 15 min of 1 Hz offline, inhibitory rTMS (or sham) over left parietal cortex, and then immediately engaged in a bilateral visual tracking task while we recorded brain activity with fMRI. We computed functional connectivity (FC) between three nodes of the attention network engaged by visual tracking: the intraparietal sulcus (IPS), frontal eye fields (FEF) and human MT+ (hMT+). FC immediately and significantly decreased between the stimulation site (left IPS) and all other regions, then recovered to normal levels within 30 minutes. rTMS increased FC between left and right FEF at approximately 36 min following stimulation, and between sites in the unstimulated hemisphere approximately 48 min after stimulation. These findings demonstrate large-scale changes in cortical organization following inhibitory rTMS. The immediate impact of rTMS on connectivity to the stimulation site dovetails with the putative role of interhemispheric balance for bilateral visual sustained attention. The delayed, compensatory increases in functional connectivity have implications for models of dynamic reorganization in networks supporting spatial and nonspatial selective attention, and compensatory mechanisms within these networks that may be stabilized in chronic stroke.	Test-retest reliability analysis in individuals with chronic incomplete spinal cord injury (iSCI). The purpose of this study was to examine the reliability of neurophysiological metrics acquired with transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) in individuals with chronic incomplete tetraplegia. Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio, USA. TMS metrics of corticospinal excitability, output, inhibition and motor map distribution were collected in muscles with a higher MRC grade and muscles with a lower MRC grade on the more affected side of the body. Metrics denoting upper limb function were also collected. All metrics were collected at two sessions separated by a minimum of two weeks. Reliability between sessions was determined using Spearman's correlation coefficients and concordance correlation coefficients (CCCs). We found that TMS metrics that were acquired in higher MRC grade muscles were approximately two times more reliable than those collected in lower MRC grade muscles. TMS metrics of motor map output, however, demonstrated poor reliability regardless of muscle choice (P=0.34; CCC=0.51). Correlation analysis indicated that patients with more baseline impairment and/or those in a more chronic phase of iSCI demonstrated greater variability of metrics. In iSCI, reliability of TMS metrics varies depending on the muscle grade of the tested muscle. Variability is also influenced by factors such as baseline motor function and time post SCI. Future studies that use TMS metrics in longitudinal study designs to understand functional recovery should be cautious as choice of muscle and clinical characteristics can influence reliability.
Podrez, Eugene	Inflammation and Immunity	29155052	28775078	25323497	24400094	24350680	23071157	22632897	21071700	20508162	20374263	High density lipoprotein (HDL) is cardioprotective, unless it is pathologically modified under oxidative stress. Covalent modifications of lipid-free apoA-I, the most abundant apoprotein in HDL, compromise its atheroprotective functions. HDL is enriched in oxidized phospholipids (oxPL) in vivo in oxidative stress. Furthermore, oxidized phospholipids can covalently modify HDL apoproteins. We have now carried out a systematic analysis of modifications of HDL apoproteins by endogenous oxPL. Human HDL or plasma were oxidized using a physiologically relevant MPO-H2O2-NO2<sup>-</sup> system or AIPH, or were exposed to synthetic oxPL. Protein adduction by oxPL was assessed using LC-MS/MS and MALDI-TOF MS. The pattern of HDL apoprotein modification by oxPL was independent of the oxidation systems used. ApoA-I and apoA-II were the major modification targets. OxPL with a γ-hydroxy (or oxo)-alkenal were mostly responsible for modifications, and the Michael adduct was the most abundant adduct. Histidines and lysines in helices 5-8 of apoA-I were highly susceptible to oxPL modifications, while lysines in helices 1, 2, 4 and 10 were resistant to modification by oxPL. In plasma exposed to oxidation or synthetic oxPL, oxPL modification was highly selective, and four histidines (H155, H162, H193 and H199) in helices 6-8 of apoA-I were the main modification target. H710 and H3613 in apoB-100 of LDL and K190 of human serum albumin were also modified by oxPL but to a lesser extent. Comparison of oxPL with short chain aldehyde HNE using MALDI-TOF MS demonstrated high selectivity and efficiency of oxPL in the modification of HDL apoproteins. These findings provide a novel insight into a potential mechanism of the loss of atheroprotective function of HDL in conditions of oxidative stress.	Platelet hyperreactivity, which is common in many pathological conditions, is associated with increased atherothrombotic risk. The mechanisms leading to platelet hyperreactivity are complex and not yet fully understood. Platelet hyperreactivity and accelerated thrombosis, specifically in dyslipidemia, have been mechanistically linked to the accumulation in the circulation of a specific group of oxidized phospholipids (oxPCCD36) that are ligands for the platelet pattern recognition receptor CD36. In the current article, we tested whether the platelet innate immune system contributes to responses to oxPCCD36 and accelerated thrombosis observed in hyperlipidemia. Using in vitro approaches, as well as platelets from mice with genetic deletion of MyD88 (myeloid differentiation factor 88) or TLRs (Toll-like receptors), we demonstrate that TLR2 and TLR6 are required for the activation of human and murine platelets by oxPCCD36. oxPCCD36 induce formation of CD36/TLR2/TLR6 complex in platelets and activate downstream signaling via TIRAP (Toll-interleukin 1 receptor domain containing adaptor protein)-MyD88-IRAK (interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase)1/4-TRAF6 (TNF receptor-associated factor 6), leading to integrin activation via the SFK (Src family kinase)-Syk (spleen tyrosine kinase)-PLCγ2 (phospholipase Cγ2) pathway. Intravital thrombosis studies using ApoE<sup>-/-</sup> mice with genetic deficiency of TLR2 or TLR6 have demonstrated that oxPCCD36 contribute to accelerated thrombosis specifically in the setting of hyperlipidemia. Our studies reveal that TLR2 plays a key role in platelet hyperreactivity and the prothrombotic state in the setting of hyperlipidemia by sensing a wide range of endogenous lipid peroxidation ligands and activating innate immune signaling cascade in platelets.	Recognition of specific oxidized phospholipids oxPCCD36 by scavenger receptors CD36 and SR-BI plays a critical role in several pathophysiological processes. The structural basis for the recognition of oxPCCD36 by CD36 and SR-BI is poorly understood. We describe here the design and synthesis of a series of model oxidized phospholipids having various functional groups at sn-1, sn-2, and sn-3 positions. Synthetic methodologies and experimental details for the preparation of specific examples of model oxidized phospholipids are presented. The correlation between their structure and their ability to serve as ligands for CD36 and SR-BI was determined using competitive binding assay on cells overexpressing scavenger receptors, direct binding assay to scavenger receptors expressed as GST-fusion proteins, and cholesterol ester synthesis assay using mouse peritoneal macrophages. 	Specific oxidized phospholipids (oxPCCD36) promote platelet hyper-reactivity and thrombosis in hyperlipidemia via the scavenger receptor CD36, however the signaling pathway(s) induced in platelets by oxPCCD36 are not well defined. We have employed mass spectrometry-based tyrosine, serine, and threonine phosphoproteomics for the unbiased analysis of platelet signaling pathways induced by oxPCCD36 as well as by the strong physiological agonist thrombin. oxPCCD36 and thrombin induced differential phosphorylation of 115 proteins (162 phosphorylation sites) and 181 proteins (334 phosphorylation sites) respectively. Most of the phosphoproteome changes induced by either agonist have never been reported in platelets; thus they provide candidates in the study of platelet signaling. Bioinformatic analyses of protein phosphorylation dependent responses were used to categorize preferential motifs for (de)phosphorylation, predict pathways and kinase activity, and construct a phosphoproteome network regulating integrin activation. A putative signaling pathway involving Src-family kinases, SYK, and PLCγ2 was identified in platelets activated by oxPCCD36. Subsequent ex vivo studies in human platelets demonstrated that this pathway is downstream of the scavenger receptor CD36 and is critical for platelet activation by oxPCCD36. Our results provide multiple insights into the mechanism of platelet activation and specifically in platelet regulation by oxPCCD36. 	Free radical-induced oxidation of phospholipids contributes significantly to pathologies associated with inflammation and oxidative stress. Detection of covalent interaction between oxidized phospholipids (oxPL) and proteins by LC-MS/MS could provide valuable information about the molecular mechanisms of oxPL effects. However, such studies are very limited because of significant challenges in detection of the comparatively low levels of oxPL-protein adducts in complex biological systems. Current approaches have several limitations, most important of which is the inability to detect protein modifications by naturally occurring oxPL. We now report, for the first time, an enrichment method that can be applied to the global analysis of protein adducts with various naturally occurring oxPL in relevant biological systems. This method exploits intrinsic properties of peptides modified by oxPL, allowing highly efficient enrichment of oxPL-modified peptides from biological samples. Very low levels of oxPL-protein adducts (&lt;2 ppm) were detected using this enrichment method in combination with LC-MS/MS. We applied the method to several model systems, including oxidation of high density lipoprotein (HDL) and interaction of human platelets with a specific oxPL, and demonstrated its extremely high efficiency and productivity. We report multiple new modifications of apolipoproteins in HDL and proteins in human platelets. 	A prothrombotic state and increased platelet reactivity are common in pathophysiological conditions associated with oxidative stress and infections. Such conditions are associated with an appearance of altered-self ligands in circulation that can be recognized by Toll-like receptors (TLRs). Platelets express a number of TLRs, including TLR9; however, the role of TLR in platelet function and thrombosis is poorly understood. To investigate the biological activities of carboxy(alkylpyrrole) protein adducts, an altered-self ligand generated in oxidative stress, on platelet function and thrombosis. In this study we show that carboxy(alkylpyrrole) protein adducts represent novel unconventional ligands for TLR9. Furthermore, using human and murine platelets, we demonstrate that carboxy(alkylpyrrole) protein adducts promote platelet activation, granule secretion, and aggregation in vitro and thrombosis in vivo via the TLR9/MyD88 pathway. Platelet activation by TLR9 ligands induces IRAK1 and AKT phosphorylation, and it is Src kinase-dependent. Physiological platelet agonists act synergistically with TLR9 ligands by inducing TLR9 expression on the platelet surface. Our study demonstrates that platelet TLR9 is a functional platelet receptor that links oxidative stress, innate immunity, and thrombosis.	Akt, a serine-threonine protein kinase, exists as three isoforms. The Akt signaling pathway controls multiple cellular functions in the cardiovascular system, and the atheroprotective endothelial cell-dependent role of Akt1 has been recently demonstrated. The role of Akt3 isoform in cardiovascular pathophysiology is not known. We explored the role of Akt3 in atherosclerosis using mice with a genetic ablation of the Akt3 gene. Using hyperlipidemic ApoE(-/-) mice, we demonstrated a macrophage-dependent, atheroprotective role for Akt3. In vitro experiments demonstrated differential subcellular localization of Akt1 and Akt3 in macrophages and showed that Akt3 specifically inhibits macrophage cholesteryl ester accumulation and foam cell formation, a critical early event in atherogenesis. Mechanistically, Akt3 suppresses foam cell formation by reducing lipoprotein uptake and promoting ACAT-1 degradation via the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. These studies demonstrate the nonredundant atheroprotective role for Akt3 exerted via the previously unknown link between the Akt signaling pathway and cholesterol metabolism.	Platelets constitutively express class B scavenger receptors CD36 and SR-BI, 2 closely related pattern recognition receptors best known for their roles in lipoprotein and lipid metabolism. The biological role of scavenger receptors in platelets is poorly understood. However, in vitro and in vivo data suggest that class B scavenger receptors modulate platelet function and contribute significantly to thrombosis by sensing pathological or physiological ligands, inducing prothrombotic signaling, and increasing platelet reactivity. Platelet CD36 recognizes a novel family of endogenous oxidized choline phospholipids that accumulate in plasma of hyperlipidemic mice and in plasma of subjects with low high-density lipoprotein levels. This interaction leads to the activation of specific signaling pathways and promotes platelet activation and thrombosis. Platelet SR-BI, on the other hand, plays a critical role in the induction of platelet hyperreactivity and accelerated thrombosis under conditions associated with increased platelet cholesterol content. Intriguingly, oxidized high-density lipoprotein, an SR-BI ligand, can suppress platelet function. These recent findings demonstrate that platelet class B scavenger receptors play roles in thrombosis in dyslipidemia and may contribute to acute cardiovascular events in vivo in hypercholesterolemia.	Hypercholesterolemia is associated with increased platelet sensitivity to agonists and a prothrombotic phenotype. Mechanisms of platelet hypersensitivity are poorly understood; however, increased platelet cholesterol levels associated with hypercholesterolemia were proposed as leading to hypersensitivity. Scavenger receptor class B type I (SR-BI) in the liver controls plasma high-density lipoprotein (HDL) levels, and SR-BI-deficient mice display a profound dyslipoproteinemia. SR-BI is also expressed on platelets, and recent studies have suggested a role for SR-BI in platelet function; however, its role in hemostasis is unknown. Our present studies demonstrated that non-bone marrow-derived SR-BI deficiency and the dyslipidemia associated with it lead to platelet hyperreactivity that was mechanistically linked to increased platelet cholesterol content. Platelet-specific deficiency of SR-BI, on the other hand, was associated with resistance to hyperreactivity induced by increased platelet cholesterol content. Intravital thrombosis studies demonstrated that platelet SR-BI deficiency protected mice from prothrombotic phenotype in 2 types of dyslipidemia associated with increased platelet cholesterol content. These novel findings demonstrate that SR-BI plays dual roles in thrombosis and may contribute to acute cardiovascular events in vivo in hypercholesterolemia.	1. High-density lipoprotein (HDL) is one of the major carriers of cholesterol in the blood. It attracts particular attention because, in contrast with other lipoproteins, many physiological functions of HDL influence the cardiovascular system in favourable ways unless HDL is modified pathologically. 2. The best known function of HDL is the capacity to promote cellular cholesterol efflux from peripheral cells and deliver cholesterol to the liver for excretion, thereby playing a key role in reverse cholesterol transport. The functions of HDL that have recently attracted attention include anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidant activities. High anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory activities of HDL are associated with protection from cardiovascular disease. 3. Atheroprotective activities, as well as a functional deficiency of HDL, ultimately depend on the protein and lipid composition of HDL. Conversely, these activities are compromised in many pathological states associated with inflammation. 4. The focus of the present review is on the anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory functions of HDL and its individual components in relation to protection from atherosclerosis.
Prasad, Sathyamangla	Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences	30259192	29776605	28763371	28329018	28179187	26023787	23785004	23735785	22697395	22041711	Proinflammatory cytokines are consistently elevated in congestive heart failure. In the current review, we provide an overview on the current understanding of how tumor necrosis factor-α (TNFα), a key proinflammatory cytokine, potentiates heart failure by overwhelming the anti-inflammatory responses disrupting the homeostasis. Studies have shown co-relationship between severity of heart failure and levels of the proinflammatory cytokine TNFα and one of its secondary mediators interleukin-6 (IL-6), suggesting their potential as biomarkers. Recent efforts have focused on understanding the mechanisms of how proinflammatory cytokines contribute towards cardiac dysfunction and failure. In addition, how unchecked proinflammatory cytokines and their cross-talk with sympathetic system overrides the anti-inflammatory response underlying failure. The review offers insights on how TNFα and IL-6 contribute to cardiac dysfunction and failure. Furthermore, this provides a forum to begin the discussion on the cross-talk between sympathetic drive and proinflammatory cytokines and its determinant role in deleterious outcomes.	Cellular responses to extracellular milieu/environment are driven by cell surface receptors that transmit the signal into the cells resulting in a synchronized and measured response. The ability to provide such exquisite responses to changes in external environment is mediated by the tight and yet, deliberate regulation of cell surface receptor function. In this regard, the seven transmembrane G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are the largest family of cell surface receptors that regulate responses like cardiac contractility, vision, and olfaction including platelet activation. GPCRs regulate these plethora of events through GPCR-activation, -desensitization, and -resensitization. External stimuli (ligands or agonists) activate GPCR initiating downstream signals. The activated GPCR undergoes inactivation or desensitization by phosphorylation and binding of β-arrestin resulting in diminution of downstream signals. The desensitized GPCRs are internalized into endosomes, wherein they undergo dephosphorylation or resensitization by protein phosphatase to be recycled back to the cell membrane as naïve GPCR ready for the next wave of stimuli. Despite the knowledge that activation, desensitization, and resensitization shoulder an equal role in maintaining GPCR function, major advances have been made in understanding activation and desensitization compared to resensitization. However, increasing evidence shows that resensitization is exquisitely regulated process, thereby contributing to the dynamic regulation of GPCR function. In recognition of these observations, in this chapter we discuss the key advances on the mechanistic underpinning that drive and regulate GPCR function with a focus on resensitization.	Proinflammatory reaction by the body occurs acutely in response to injury that is considered primarily beneficial. However, sustained proinflammatory cytokines observed with chronic pathologies such as metabolic syndrome, cancer, and arthritis are detrimental and in many cases is a major cardiovascular risk factor. Proinflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-1, interleukin-6, and tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα) have long been implicated in cardiovascular risk and considered to be a major underlying cause for heart failure (HF). The failure of the anti-TNFα therapy for HF indicates our elusive understanding on the dichotomous role of proinflammatory cytokines on acutely beneficial effects versus long-term deleterious effects. Despite these well-described observations, less is known about the mechanistic underpinnings of proinflammatory cytokines especially TNFα in pathogenesis of HF. Increasing evidence suggests the existence of an active cross-talk between the TNFα receptor signaling and G-protein-coupled receptors such as β-adrenergic receptor (βAR). Given that βARs are the key regulators of cardiac function, the review will discuss the current state of understanding on the role of proinflammatory cytokine TNFα in regulating βAR function.	It is well established that the gene expression patterns are substantially altered in cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure, however, less is known about the reasons behind such global differences. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short non-coding RNAs that can target multiple molecules to regulate wide array of proteins in diverse pathways. The goal of the study was to profile alterations in miRNA expression using end-stage human heart failure samples with an aim to build signaling network pathways using predicted targets for the altered miRNA and to determine nodal molecules regulating individual networks. Profiling of miRNAs using custom designed microarray and validation with an independent set of samples identified eight miRNAs that are altered in human heart failure including one novel miRNA yet to be implicated in cardiac pathology. To gain an unbiased perspective on global regulation by top eight altered miRNAs, functional relationship of predicted targets for these eight miRNAs were examined by network analysis. Ingenuity Pathways Analysis network algorithm was used to build global signaling networks based on the targets of altered miRNAs which allowed us to identify participating networks and nodal molecules that could contribute to cardiac pathophysiology. Majority of the nodal molecules identified in our analysis are targets of altered miRNAs and known regulators of cardiovascular signaling. Cardio-genomics heart failure gene expression public data base was used to analyze trends in expression pattern for target nodal molecules and indeed changes in expression of nodal molecules inversely correlated to miRNA alterations. We have used NF kappa B network as an example to show that targeting other molecules in the network could alter the nodal NF kappa B despite not being a miRNA target suggesting an integrated network response. Thus, using network analysis we show that altering key functional target proteins may regulate expression of the myriad signaling pathways underlying the cardiac pathology.	Traditionally, an enzyme is a protein that mediates biochemical action by binding to the substrate and by catalyzing the reaction that translates external cues into biological responses. Sequential dissemination of information from one enzyme to another facilitates signal transduction in biological systems providing for feed-forward and feed-back mechanisms. Given this viewpoint, an enzyme without its catalytic activity is generally considered to be an inert organizational protein without catalytic function and has classically been termed as pseudo-enzymes. However, pseudo-enzymes still have biological function albeit non-enzymatic like serving as a chaperone protein or an interactive platform between proteins. In this regard, majority of the studies have focused solely on the catalytic role of enzymes in biological function, overlooking the potentially critical non-enzymatic roles. Increasing evidence from recent studies implicate that the scaffolding function of enzymes could be as important in signal transduction as its catalytic activity, which is an antithesis to the definition of enzymes. Recognition of non-enzymatic functions could be critical, as these unappreciated roles may hold clues to the ineffectiveness of kinase inhibitors in pathology, which is characteristically associated with increased enzyme expression. Using an established enzyme phosphoinositide 3-kinase γ, we discuss the insights obtained from the scaffolding function and how this non-canonical role could contribute to/alter the outcomes in pathology like cancer and heart failure. Also, we hope that with this review, we provide a forum and a starting point to discuss the idea that catalytic function alone may not account for all the actions observed with increased expression of the enzyme.	β2-adrenergic receptor (β2AR) agonists (β2-agonist) are the most commonly used therapy for acute relief in asthma, but chronic use of these bronchodilators paradoxically exacerbates airway hyper-responsiveness. Activation of βARs by β-agonist leads to desensitization (inactivation) by phosphorylation through G-protein coupled receptor kinases (GRKs) which mediate β-arrestin binding and βAR internalization. Resensitization occurs by dephosphorylation of the endosomal βARs which recycle back to the plasma membrane as agonist-ready receptors. To determine whether the loss in β-agonist response in asthma is due to altered βAR desensitization and/or resensitization, we used primary human airway smooth muscle cells (HASMCs) isolated from the lungs of non-asthmatic and fatal-asthmatic subjects. Asthmatic HASMCs have diminished adenylyl cyclase activity and cAMP response to β-agonist as compared to non-asthmatic HASMCs. Confocal microscopy showed significant accumulation of phosphorylated β2ARs in asthmatic HASMCs. Systematic analysis of desensitization components including GRKs and β-arrestin showed no appreciable differences between asthmatic and non-asthmatic HASMCs. However, asthmatic HASMC showed significant increase in PI3Kγ activity and was associated with reduction in PP2A activity. Since reduction in PP2A activity could alter receptor resensitization, endosomal fractions were isolated to assess the agonist ready β2ARs as a measure of resensitization. Despite significant accumulation of β2ARs in the endosomes of asthmatic HASMCs, endosomal β2ARs cannot robustly activate adenylyl cyclase. Furthermore, endosomes from asthmatic HASMCs are associated with significant increase in PI3Kγ and reduced PP2A activity that inhibits β2AR resensitization. Our study shows that resensitization, a process considered to be a homeostasis maintaining passive process is inhibited in asthmatic HASMCs contributing to β2AR dysfunction which may underlie asthma pathophysiology and loss in asthma control. 	Proinflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor-α (TNFα) induces β-adrenergic receptor (βAR) desensitization, but mechanisms proximal to the receptor in contributing to cardiac dysfunction are not known. Two different proinflammatory transgenic mouse models with cardiac overexpression of myotrophin (a prohypertrophic molecule) or TNFα showed that TNFα alone is sufficient to mediate βAR desensitization as measured by cardiac adenylyl cyclase activity. M-mode echocardiography in these mouse models showed cardiac dysfunction paralleling βAR desensitization independent of sympathetic overdrive. TNFα-mediated βAR desensitization that precedes cardiac dysfunction is associated with selective upregulation of G-protein coupled receptor kinase 2 (GRK2) in both mouse models. In vitro studies in β2AR-overexpressing human embryonic kidney 293 cells showed significant βAR desensitization, GRK2 upregulation, and recruitment to the βAR complex following TNFα. Interestingly, inhibition of phosphoinositide 3-kinase abolished GRK2-mediated βAR phosphorylation and GRK2 recruitment on TNFα. Furthermore, TNFα-mediated βAR phosphorylation was not blocked with βAR antagonist propranolol. Additionally, TNFα administration in transgenic mice with cardiac overexpression of Gβγ-sequestering peptide βARK-ct could not prevent βAR desensitization or cardiac dysfunction showing that GRK2 recruitment to the βAR is Gβγ independent. Small interfering RNA knockdown of GRK2 resulted in the loss of TNFα-mediated βAR phosphorylation. Consistently, cardiomyocytes from mice with cardiac-specific GRK2 ablation normalized the TNFα-mediated loss in contractility, showing that TNFα-induced βAR desensitization is GRK2 dependent. TNFα-induced βAR desensitization is mediated by GRK2 and is independent of Gβγ, uncovering a hitherto unknown cross-talk between TNFα and βAR function, providing the underpinnings of inflammation-mediated cardiac dysfunction.	High fidelity genome-wide expression analysis has strengthened the idea that microRNA (miRNA) signatures in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) can be potentially used to predict the pathology when anatomical samples are inaccessible like the heart. PBMCs from 48 non-failing controls and 44 patients with relatively stable chronic heart failure (ejection fraction of ≤ 40%) associated with dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) were used for miRNA analysis. Genome-wide miRNA-microarray on PBMCs from chronic heart failure patients identified miRNA signature uniquely characterized by the downregulation of miRNA-548 family members. We have also independently validated downregulation of miRNA-548 family members (miRNA-548c &amp; 548i) using real time-PCR in a large cohort of independent patient samples. Independent in silico Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) of miRNA-548 targets shows unique enrichment of signaling molecules and pathways associated with cardiovascular disease and hypertrophy. Consistent with specificity of miRNA changes with pathology, PBMCs from breast cancer patients showed no alterations in miRNA-548c expression compared to healthy controls. These studies suggest that miRNA-548 family signature in PBMCs can therefore be used to detect early heart failure. Our studies show that cognate networking of predicted miRNA-548 targets in heart failure can be used as a powerful ancillary tool to predict the ongoing pathology.	G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) are seven transmembrane receptors that are pivotal regulators of cellular responses including vision, cardiac contractility, olfaction, and platelet activation. GPCRs have been a major target for drug discovery due to their role in regulating a broad range of physiological and pathological responses. GPCRs mediate these responses through a cyclical process of receptor activation (initiation of downstream signals), desensitization (inactivation that results in diminution of downstream signals), and resensitization (receptor reactivation for next wave of activation). Although these steps may be of equal importance in regulating receptor function, significant advances have been made in understanding activation and desensitization with limited effort towards resensitization. Inadequate importance has been given to resensitization due to the understanding that resensitization is a homeostasis maintaining process and is not acutely regulated. Evidence indicates that resensitization is a critical step in regulating GPCR function and may contribute towards receptor signaling and cellular responses. In light of these observations, it is imperative to discuss resensitization as a dynamic and mechanistic regulator of GPCR function. In this review we discuss components regulating GPCR function like activation, desensitization, and internalization with special emphasis on resensitization. Although we have used β-adrenergic receptor as a proto-type GPCR to discuss mechanisms regulating receptor function, other GPCRs are also described to put forth a view point on the universality of such mechanisms.	G protein-coupled receptors are the largest family of cell surface receptors regulating multiple cellular processes. β-adrenergic receptor (βAR) is a prototypical member of GPCR family and has been one of the most well studied receptors in determining regulation of receptor function. Agonist activation of βAR leads to conformational change resulting in coupling to G protein generating cAMP as secondary messenger. The activated βAR is phosphorylated resulting in binding of β-arrestin that physically interdicts further G protein coupling leading to receptor desensitization. The phosphorylated βAR is internalized and undergoes resensitization by dephosphorylation mediated by protein phosphatase 2A in the early endosomes. Although desensitization and resensitization are two sides of the same coin maintaining the homeostatic functioning of the receptor, significant interest has revolved around understanding mechanisms of receptor desensitization while little is known about resensitization. In our current review we provide an overview on regulation of βAR function with a special emphasis on receptor resensitization and its functional relevance in the context of fine tuning receptor signaling.
Qin, Jun	Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences	31167123	30367047	29170462	28348077	25849143	25666618	25160619	22763012	22078565	22030399	Microrchidia 3 (MORC3) is an ATPase and a regulator of influenza A virus (IAVs). In this issue of Structure, Zhang et al. (2019b) solved the crystal structure of human MORC3 in complex with the IAV protein NS1, providing a mechanism for targeting MORC3 by IAVs to regulate viral infection.	Dynamic communication between integrin-containing complexes (focal adhesions, FAs) and actin filaments is critical for regulating cell adhesion. Pseudokinase ILK plays a key role in this process but the underlying mechanism remains highly elusive. Here we show that by recruiting FA adaptors PINCH and Parvin into a heterotrimeric complex (IPP), ILK triggers F-actin filament bundling - a process known to generate force/mechanical signal to promote cytoskeleton reassembly and dynamic cell adhesion. Structural, biochemical, and functional analyses revealed that the F-actin bundling is orchestrated by two previously unrecognized WASP-Homology-2 actin binding motifs within IPP, one from PINCH and the other from Parvin. Strikingly, this process is also sensitized to Mg-ATP bound to the pseudoactive site of ILK and its dysregulation severely impairs stress fibers formation, cell spreading, and migration. These data identify a crucial mechanism for ILK, highlighting its uniqueness as a pseudokinase to transduce non-catalytic signal and regulate cell adhesion.	Activation of transmembrane receptor integrin by talin is essential for inducing cell adhesion. However, the pathway that recruits talin to the membrane, which critically controls talin's action, remains elusive. Membrane-anchored mammalian small GTPase Rap1 is known to bind talin-F0 domain but the binding was shown to be weak and thus hardly studied. Here we show structurally that talin-F0 binds to human Rap1b like canonical Rap1 effectors despite little sequence homology, and disruption of the binding strongly impairs integrin activation, cell adhesion, and cell spreading. Furthermore, while being weak in conventional binary binding conditions, the Rap1b/talin interaction becomes strong upon attachment of activated Rap1b to vesicular membranes that mimic the agonist-induced microenvironment. These data identify a crucial Rap1-mediated membrane-targeting mechanism for talin to activate integrin. They further broadly caution the analyses of weak protein-protein interactions that may be pivotal for function but neglected in the absence of specific cellular microenvironments.	Filamin-mediated linkages between transmembrane receptors (TR) and the actin cytoskeleton are crucial for regulating many cytoskeleton-dependent cellular processes such as cell shape change and migration. A major TR binding site in the immunoglobulin repeat 21 (Ig21) of filamin is masked by the adjacent repeat Ig20, resulting in autoinhibition. The TR binding to this site triggers the relief of Ig20 and protein kinase A (PKA)-mediated phosphorylation of Ser-2152, thereby dynamically regulating the TR-actin linkages. A P2204L mutation in Ig20 reportedly cause frontometaphyseal dysplasia, a skeletal disorder with unknown pathogenesis. We show here that the P2204L mutation impairs a hydrophobic core of Ig20, generating a conformationally fluctuating molten globule-like state. Consequently, unlike in WT filamin, where PKA-mediated Ser-2152 phosphorylation is ligand-dependent, the P2204L mutant is readily accessible to PKA, promoting ligand-independent phosphorylation on Ser-2152. Strong TR peptide ligands from platelet GP1bα and G-protein-coupled receptor MAS effectively bound Ig21 by displacing Ig20 from autoinhibited WT filamin, but surprisingly, the capacity of these ligands to bind the P2204L mutant was much reduced despite the mutation-induced destabilization of the Ig20 structure that supposedly weakens the autoinhibition. Thermodynamic analysis indicated that compared with WT filamin, the conformationally fluctuating state of the Ig20 mutant makes Ig21 enthalpically favorable to bind ligand but with substantial entropic penalty, resulting in total higher free energy and reduced ligand affinity. Overall, our results reveal an unusual structural and thermodynamic basis for the P2204L-induced dysfunction of filamin and frontometaphyseal dysplasia disease.	Activation of heterodimeric (αβ) integrin is crucial for regulating cell adhesion. Binding of talin to the cytoplasmic face of integrin activates the receptor, but how integrin is maintained in a resting state to counterbalance its activation has remained obscure. Here, we report the structure of the cytoplasmic domain of human integrin αIIbβ3 bound to its inhibitor, the immunoglobin repeat 21 of filamin A (FLNa-Ig21). The structure reveals an unexpected ternary complex in which FLNa-Ig21 not only binds to the C terminus of the integrin β3 cytoplasmic tail (CT), as previously predicted, but also engages N-terminal helices of αIIb and β3 CTs to stabilize an inter-CT clasp that helps restrain the integrin in a resting state. Combined with functional data, the structure reveals a new mechanism of filamin-mediated retention of inactive integrin, suggesting a new framework for understanding regulation of integrin activation and adhesion. 	Protein phosphorylation mediates essentially all aspects of cellular life. In humans, this is achieved by ∼500 kinases, each recognizing a specific consensus motif (CM) in the substrates. The majority of CMs are surface-exposed and are thought to be accessible to kinases for phosphorylation. Here we investigated the archetypical protein kinase A (PKA)-mediated phosphorylation of filamin, a major cytoskeletal protein that can adopt an autoinhibited conformation. Surprisingly, autoinhibited filamin is refractory to phosphorylation by PKA on a known Ser(2152) site despite its CM being exposed and the corresponding isolated peptide being readily phosphorylated. Structural analysis revealed that although the CM fits into the PKA active site its surrounding regions sterically clash with the kinase. However, upon ligand binding, filamin undergoes a conformational adjustment, allowing rapid phosphorylation on Ser(2152). These data uncover a novel ligand-induced conformational switch to trigger filamin phosphorylation. They further suggest a substrate shape-dependent filtering mechanism that channels specific exposed CM/kinase recognition in diverse signaling responses. 	Integrin-linked kinase (ILK) is a distinct intracellular adaptor essential for integrin-mediated cell-extracellular matrix adhesion, cell spreading, and migration. Acting as a major docking platform in focal adhesions, ILK engages many proteins to dynamically link integrins with the cytoskeleton, but the underlying mechanism remains elusive. Here, we have characterized the interaction of ILK with kindlin-2, a key regulator for integrin bidirectional signaling. We show that human kindlin-2 binds to human ILK with high affinity. Using systematic mapping approaches, we have identified a major ILK binding site involving a 20-residue fragment (residues 339-358) in kindlin-2. NMR-based analysis reveals a helical conformation of this fragment that utilizes its leucine-rich surface to recognize the ILK pseudokinase domain in a mode that is distinct from another ILK pseudokinase domain binding protein, α-parvin. Structure-based mutational experiments further demonstrate that the kindlin-2 binding to ILK is crucial for the kindlin-2 localization to focal adhesions and cell spreading (integrin outside-in signaling) but dispensable for the kindlin-2-mediated integrin activation (integrin inside-out signaling). These data define a specific mode of the kindlin-2/ILK interaction with mechanistic implications as to how it spatiotemporally mediates integrin signaling and cell adhesion. 	Integrin-linked kinase (ILK) is a widely expressed and evolutionally conserved component of cell-extracellular matrix (ECM) adhesions. Although initially named as a kinase, ILK contains an unusual pseudoactive site that is incapable of catalyzing phosphorylation. Instead, ILK acts as a central component of a heterotrimer (the PINCH-ILK-parvin complex) at ECM adhesions mediating interactions with a large number of proteins via multiple sites including its pseudoactive site. Through higher level protein-protein interactions, this scaffold links integrins to the actin cytoskeleton and catalytic proteins and thereby regulates focal adhesion assembly, cytoskeleton organization and signaling. This review summarizes recent advances in our understanding of the structure and functions of the PINCH-ILK-parvin complex, and discusses emerging new features of the molecular mechanisms by which it regulates diverse cellular, physiological and pathological processes.	Kindlin-2 belongs to an emerging class of regulators for heterodimeric (α/β) integrin adhesion receptors. By binding to integrin β cytoplasmic tail via its C-terminal FERM-like domain, kindlin-2 promotes integrin activation. Intriguingly, this activation process depends on the N terminus of kindlin-2 (K2-N) that precedes the FERM domain. The molecular function of K2-N is unclear. We present the solution structure of K2-N, which displays a ubiquitin fold similar to that observed in kindlin-1. Using chemical shift mapping and mutagenesis, we found that K2-N contains a conserved positively charged surface that binds to membrane enriched with negatively charged phosphatidylinositol-(4,5)-bisphosphate. We show that while wild-type kindlin-2 is capable of promoting integrin activation, such ability is significantly reduced for its membrane-binding defective mutant. These data suggest a membrane-binding function of the ubiquitin-like domain of kindlin-2, which is likely common for all kindlins to promote their localization to the plasma membrane and control integrin activation.	Kindlins are a subclass of FERM-containing proteins that have recently emerged as key regulators of integrin receptor activation and signaling. As compared with the conventional FERM domain, the kindlin FERM domain contains an inserted pleckstrin homology (PH) domain that recognizes membrane phosphoinositides, including phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2) and phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate (PIP3). Using NMR spectroscopy, we show that PIP3 site-specifically binds to kindlin-2 PH with substantial chemical shift changes that are much larger than PIP2. This suggests an enhanced association of kindlin-2 with membrane as mediated by PIP3 upon its conversion from PIP2 by phosphoinositide-3 kinase, a known regulator of integrin activation. We determined the NMR structure of the kindlin-2 PH domain bound to the head group of PIP3, inositol 1,3,4,5-tetraphosphate (IP4). The structure reveals a canonical PH domain fold, yet with a distinct IP4 binding pocket that appears highly conserved for the kindlin family members. Functional experiments demonstrate that although wild type kindlin-2 is capable of cooperating with integrin activator talin to induce synergistic integrin α(IIb)β(3) activation, this ability is significantly impaired for a phosphoinositide binding-defective kindlin-2 mutant. These results define a specific PIP3 recognition mode for the kindlin PH domain. Moreover, they shed light upon a mechanism as to how the PH domain mediates membrane engagement of kindlin-2 to promote its binding to integrin and cooperation with talin for regulation of integrin activation.
Radivoyevitch, Tomas	Quantitative Health Sciences	30055822	27007600	26922774	25663652	25480649	24337217	23205301	22353999	25392744	22303993	Exposures to DNA-damaging drugs and ionizing radiations increase risks of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). 9028 recipients of hematopoietic cell autotransplants (1995-2010) for Hodgkin lymphoma (HL; n = 916), non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL; n = 3546) and plasma cell myeloma (PCM; n = 4566), reported to the CIBMTR, were analyzed for risk of subsequent AML or MDS. 335 MDS/AML cases were diagnosed posttransplant (3.7%). Variables associated with an increased risk for AML or MDS in multivariate analyses were: (1) conditioning with total body radiation versus chemotherapy alone for HL (HR = 4.0; 95% confidence interval [1.4, 11.6]) and NHL (HR = 2.5 [1.1, 2.5]); (2) ≥3 versus 1 line of chemotherapy for NHL (HR = 1.9 [1.3, 2.8]); and (3) subjects with NHL transplanted in 2005-2010 versus 1995-1999 (HR = 2.1 [1.5, 3.1]). Using Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results (SEER) data, we found risks for AML/MDS in HL, NHL and PCM to be 5-10 times the background rate. In contrast, relative risks were 10-50 for AML and approximately 100 for MDS in the autotransplant cohort. There are substantial risks of AML and MDS after autotransplants for HL, NHL and PCM.	The t(9;22) translocation that causes chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) drives both transformation and the progression process that eventually results in the disease changing to acute leukemia. Constitutively activated Bcr-Abl signaling in CML creates high levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) that produce 8-oxo-guanine in DNA; this is mutagenic and causes chronic phase (CP) progression to blast phase (BP). We modeled three types of mutations involved in this progression: mutations that result in myeloid progenitor cells proliferating independently of external growth factors; mutations causing failure of myeloid progenitor cells to differentiate; and mutations that enable these cells to survive independently of attachment to marrow stroma. We further modeled tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI) as restoring myeloid cell apoptosis and preventing ROS-driven mutagenesis, and mutations that cause TKI resistance. We suggest that the unusually low rate of resistance to TKI arises because these drugs deplete ROS, which in turn decrease mutation rates.	Exposure to ionizing radiation is not thought to cause chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Challenging this notion are recent data suggesting CLL incidence may be increased by radiation exposure from the atomic bombs (after many decades), uranium mining and nuclear power facility accidents. To assess the effects of therapeutic ionizing radiation for the treatment of solid neoplasms we studied CLL risks in data from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) Program. Specifically, we compared the risks of developing CLL in persons with a 1(st) non-hematologic cancer treated with or without ionizing radiation. We controlled for early detection effects on CLL risk induced by surveillance after 1(st) cancer diagnoses by forming all-time cumulative CLL relative risks (RR). We estimate such CLL RR to be 1.20 (95% confidence interval, 1.17, 1.23) for persons whose 1(st) cancer was not treated with ionizing radiation and 1.00 (0.96, 1.05) for persons whose 1(st) cancer was treated with ionizing radiations. These results imply that diagnosis of a solid neoplasm is associated with an increased risk of developing CLL only in persons whose 1(st) cancer was not treated with radiation therapy. 	We consider dosing regimens designed to cure patients by eradicating colony forming units (CFU) such as bacteria. In the field of &quot;population&quot; pharmaco-kinetics/dynamics (PK/PD), inter-individual variability (IIV) of patients is estimated using model parameter statistical distributions. We consider a more probabilistic approach to IIV called stochastic process theory, motivated by the fact that tumor treatment planning uses both approaches. Stochastic process PD can supply additional insights and suggest different dosing regimens due to its emphasis on the probability of complete CFU eradication and its predictions on &quot;pure chance&quot; fluctuations of CFU number per patient when treatment has reduced this integer to less than ~100. To exemplify the contrast between stochastic process PD models and standard deterministic PD models, which track only average CFU number, we analyze, neglecting immune responses, neonatal intravenous gentamicin dosing regimens directed against Escherichia coli. Our stochastic calculations predict that the first dose is crucial for CFU eradication. For example, a single 6 mg/kg dose is predicted to have a higher eradication probability than four daily 4 mg/kg doses. We conclude: (1) neonatal gentamicin dosing regimens with larger first doses but smaller total doses deserve investigation; (2) in general, if standard PK/PD models predict average CFU number drops substantially below 100, the models should be modified to incorporate stochastic effects more accurately, and will then usually make more favorable, or less unfavorable, predictions for front boosting (&quot;hit hard early&quot;). Various caveats against over-interpreting the calculations are given. 	Leukemias are driven by stemlike cancer cells (SLCC), whose initiation, growth, response to treatment, and posttreatment behavior are often &quot;stochastic&quot;, i.e., differ substantially even among very similar patients for reasons not observable with present techniques. We review the probabilistic mathematical methods used to analyze stochastics and give two specific examples. The first example concerns a treatment protocol, e.g., for acute myeloid leukemia (AML), where intermittent cytotoxic drug dosing (e.g., once each weekday) is used with intent to cure. We argue mathematically that, if independent SLCC are growing stochastically during prolonged treatment, then, other things being equal, front-loading doses are more effective for tumor eradication than back loading. We also argue that the interacting SLCC dynamics during treatment is often best modeled by considering SLCC in microenvironmental niches, with SLCC-SLCC interactions occurring only among SLCC within the same niche, and we present a stochastic dynamics formalism, involving &quot;Poissonization,&quot; applicable in such situations. Interactions at a distance due to partial control of total cell numbers are also considered. The second half of this chapter concerns chromosomal aberrations, lesions known to cause some leukemias. A specific example is the induction of a Philadelphia chromosome by ionizing radiation, subsequent development of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), CML treatment, and treatment outcome. This time evolution involves a coordinated sequence of &gt; 10 steps, each stochastic in its own way, at the subatomic, molecular, macromolecular, cellular, tissue, and population scales, with corresponding time scales ranging from picoseconds to decades. We discuss models of these steps and progress in integrating models across scales.	The incidence of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), which is caused by BCR/ABL chimeric oncogene formation in a pluripotent hematopoietic stem cell (HSC), increases with age and exposure to ionizing radiation. CML is a comparatively well-characterized neoplasm, important for its own sake and useful for insights into other neoplasms. Here, Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results (SEER) CML data are analyzed after considering possible misclassification of chronic myelo-monocytic leukemia as CML. For people older than 25 years, plots of male and female CML log incidences versus age at diagnosis are approximately parallel straight lines with males either above or to the left of females. This is consistent with males having a higher risk of developing CML or a shorter latency from initiation to diagnosis of CML. These distinct mechanisms cannot be distinguished using SEER data alone. Therefore, CML risks among male and female Japanese A-bomb survivors are also analyzed. The present analyses suggest that sex differences in CML incidence more likely result from differences in risk than in latency. The simplest but not the sole interpretation of this is that males have more target cells at risk to develop CML. Comprehensive mathematical models of CML could lead to a better understanding of the role of HSCs in CML and other preleukemias that can progress to acute leukemia.	Loss of the transcription factor p53 implies mRNA losses of target genes such as the p53R2 subunit of human ribonucleotide reductase (RNR). We hypothesized that other genes in the dNTP supply system would compensate for such p53R2 losses and looked for this in our own data and in data of the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO). We found that the de novo dNTP supply system compensates for p53R2 losses with increases in RNR subunit R1, R2, or both. We also found compensatory increases in cytosolic deoxycytidine kinase (dCK) and thymidine kinase 1 (TK1) and in mitochondrial deoxyguanosine kinase (dGK), all of the salvage dNTP supply system; in contrast, the remaining mitochondrial salvage enzyme thymidine kinase 2 (TK2) decreased with p53 loss. Thus, TK2 may be more dedicated to meeting mitochondrial dNTP demands than dGK which may be more obligated to assist cytosolic dNTP supply in meeting nuclear DNA dNTP demands. 	Mathematical models of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) cell population dynamics are being developed to improve CML understanding and treatment. We review such models in light of relevant findings from radiobiology, emphasizing 3 points. First, the CML models almost all assert that the latency time, from CML initiation to diagnosis, is at most ∼10 years. Meanwhile, current radiobiologic estimates, based on Japanese atomic bomb survivor data, indicate a substantially higher maximum, suggesting longer-term relapses and extra resistance mutations. Second, different CML models assume different numbers, between 400 and 10(6), of normal HSCs. Radiobiologic estimates favor values&gt;10(6) for the number of normal cells (often assumed to be the HSCs) that are at risk for a CML-initiating BCR-ABL translocation. Moreover, there is some evidence for an HSC dead-band hypothesis, consistent with HSC numbers being very different across different healthy adults. Third, radiobiologists have found that sporadic (background, age-driven) chromosome translocation incidence increases with age during adulthood. BCR-ABL translocation incidence increasing with age would provide a hitherto underanalyzed contribution to observed background adult-onset CML incidence acceleration with age, and would cast some doubt on stage-number inferences from multistage carcinogenesis models in general.	Chemotherapies targeting deoxynucleotide triphosphate synthesis are of high medical interest in the treatment of gynecologic malignancies. In this article, we focus on targeted inhibitors of ribonucleotide reductase, an enzyme in charge of ribonucleotide reduction to their corresponding deoxyribonucleotide to be used as the building blocks of DNA. We also discuss human clinical trials have utilized ribonucleotide reductase subunit-specific inhibitors, particularly trials for women with cervical cancer.	Mammalian ribonucleotide reductase (RNR) activity has been reported to be nonmonotonic in ATP. If many nonlinear models are to be fitted to such data automatically as part of a model search process, use of the same initial parameter values across all models can lead to too many poor fitting, monotonic least squares fits, i.e., false model rejections. We propose that such fits can be rescued by using as initial parameter estimates the final estimates of neighboring models that do have nonmonotonic fits; here models are neighbors if complexes that they represent differ by at most one ligand. We use this approach to show that troughs in RNR activity versus ATP can be fitted similarly well by models that do or do not demand a third ATP binding site.
Rajeswaran, Jeevanantham	Quantitative Health Sciences	27856959	26740575	24919830	17357993	17397676	30071995	29779634	28967527	24981029	24981029	In many longitudinal follow-up studies, we observe more than one longitudinal outcome. Impaired renal and liver functions are indicators of poor clinical outcomes for patients who are on mechanical circulatory support and awaiting heart transplant. Hence, monitoring organ functions while waiting for heart transplant is an integral part of patient management. Longitudinal measurements of bilirubin can be used as a marker for liver function and glomerular filtration rate for renal function. We derive an approximation to evolution of association between these two organ functions using a bivariate nonlinear mixed effects model for continuous longitudinal measurements, where the two submodels are linked by a common distribution of time-dependent latent variables and a common distribution of measurement errors.	Atrial fibrillation is an arrhythmic disorder where the electrical signals of the heart become irregular. The probability of atrial fibrillation (binary response) is often time varying in a structured fashion, as is the influence of associated risk factors. A generalized nonlinear mixed effects model is presented to estimate the time-related probability of atrial fibrillation using a temporal decomposition approach to reveal the pattern of the probability of atrial fibrillation and their determinants. This methodology generalizes to patient-specific analysis of longitudinal binary data with possibly time-varying effects of covariates and with different patient-specific random effects influencing different temporal phases. The motivation and application of this model is illustrated using longitudinally measured atrial fibrillation data obtained through weekly trans-telephonic monitoring from an NIH sponsored clinical trial being conducted by the Cardiothoracic Surgery Clinical Trials Network.	In medical sciences, we often encounter longitudinal temporal relationships that are non-linear in nature. The influence of risk factors may also change across longitudinal follow-up. A system of multiphase non-linear mixed effects model is presented to model temporal patterns of longitudinal continuous measurements, with temporal decomposition to identify the phases and risk factors within each phase. Application of this model is illustrated using spirometry data after lung transplantation using readily available statistical software. This application illustrates the usefulness of our flexible model when dealing with complex non-linear patterns and time-varying coefficients.	We derive and compute confidence intervals for probabilities of categories for ordinal responses in cumulative logit link models using frequentist, Bayesian, and bootstrap approaches. The three approaches are evaluated by their coverage probabilities and are illustrated for longitudinal assessment of graded heart valve prosthesis regurgitation following aortic valve replacement.	Among patients undergoing aortic valve surgery for chronic aortic regurgitation (AR), we sought to: 1) compare survival among those with and without severe left ventricular dysfunction (LVD); 2) identify risk factors for death, including LVD and date of operation; and 3) estimate contemporary risk for cardiomyopathic patients. Patients with chronic AR and severe LVD have been considered high risk for aortic valve surgery, with limited prognosis. Transplantation is considered for some. From 1972 to 1999, 724 patients underwent surgery for chronic AR; 88 (12%) had severe LVD. They were propensity matched to patients with nonsevere LVD to compare hospital mortality, interaction of operative date with severity of LVD, and late survival. Propensity score-adjusted multivariable analysis was performed for all 724 patients to identify risk factors for death. Survival was lower (p = 0.04) among patients with severe LVD than among matched patients with nonsevere LVD (30-day, 1-, 5-, and 25-year survival estimates were 91% vs. 96%, 81% vs. 92%, 68% vs. 81%, and 5% vs. 12%, respectively). However, survival of patients with severe LVD improved dramatically across the study time frame (p = 0.0004): hospital mortality decreased from 50% in 1975 to 0% after 1985, and time-related survival in patients with severe LVD operated on since 1985 became equivalent to that of matched patients with nonsevere LVD (p = 0.96). Neutralizing risk of severe LVD has improved early and late survival such that aortic valve surgery for chronic AR and cardiomyopathy is no longer a high-risk procedure for which transplantation is the best option.	Heart transplant allocation in the United States is made on the basis of coarse tiers, defined by mechanical circulatory devices and therapy for advanced heart failure, updated infrequently as a patient's condition deteriorates. Thus, many patients die awaiting heart transplantation. What is needed is a tool that continuously updates risk of mortality as a patient's condition changes to inform clinical decision making. This study sought to develop a decision aid that aggregates adverse events and measures of end-organ function into a continuously updated waitlist mortality estimate. From 2008 to 2013, 414 patients were listed for heart transplantation at Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio. The endpoint was waitlist death. Pre-listing patient characteristics and events and laboratory results during listing were analyzed. At each event or measurement change, mortality was recomputed from the resulting model. There were 77 waitlist deaths, with 1- and 4-year survival of 85% and 57%, respectively. When time-varying events and measurements were incorporated into a mortality model, pre-listing patient characteristics became nonsignificant. Neurological events (hazard ratio [HR]: 13.5; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 7.63 to 23.8), new requirement for dialysis (HR: 3.67; 95% CI: 1.88 to 7.14), more respiratory complications (HR: 1.79 per episode; 95% CI: 1.23 to 2.59), and higher serum bilirubin (p &lt; 0.0001) and creatinine (p &lt; 0.0001) yielded continuously updated estimates of patient-specific mortality across the waitlist period. Mortality risk for patients with advanced heart failure who are listed for transplantation is related to adverse events and end-organ dysfunction that change over time. A continuously updated mortality estimate, combined with clinical evaluation, may inform status changes that could reduce mortality on the heart transplant waiting list.	Infection is an important cause of morbidity and mortality after lung transplantation. Immunoglobulins are part of both seromucous (IgA) and serum (IgG) infection defense mechanisms. We therefore hypothesized that lower pretransplant IgA levels would be associated with more early post-lung transplant seromucous infections and greater mortality independent of IgG. From January 2000 to July 2010, 538 patients undergoing primary lung transplantation had pretransplant IgA (n = 429) and IgG (n = 488) measured as a clinical routine. Median IgA was 200 mg·dL<sup>-1</sup> (2% &lt; 70 mg·dL<sup>-1</sup>, lower limit of normal); median IgG was 970 mg·dL<sup>-1</sup> (5% &lt; 600 mg·dL<sup>-1</sup>). Intensive microbiology review was used to categorize infections and their causative organisms within the first posttransplant year. In total, 397 seromucous infections were observed in 247 patients, most bacterial. Although IgA and IgG were moderately correlated (r = 0.5, P &lt; .0001), low pretransplant IgA was a strong risk factor (P = .01) for seromucous infections, but pretransplant IgG was not (P ≥ .6). As pretransplant IgA levels fell below 200 mg·dL<sup>-1</sup>, the risk of these posttransplant infections rose nearly linearly. Lower pretransplant levels of IgA were associated with greater posttransplant mortality to end of follow-up (P = .004), but pretransplant IgG was not (P ≥ .3). Low levels of preoperative IgA, an important immunoglobulin involved in mucosal immunologic defense, but not IgG, are associated with seromucous infections in the year after lung transplantation and increased follow-up mortality. It would appear prudent to identify patients with relative IgA deficiency at listing and to increase vigilance of monitoring for, and prophylaxis against, seromucous infection in this high-risk population.	Repair options for complex abdominal and thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms (TAAAs) are evolving with increased experience and availability of less invasive endovascular techniques. Identifying risk factors for mortality after fenestrated and branched endovascular aortic repair (F/B-EVAR) could improve patient selection and facilitate decision making regarding who may benefit from prophylactic F/B-EVAR. We evaluated 1091 patients in a prospective investigational device exemption trial who underwent F/B-EVAR from August 2001 to June 2015 for complex aortic aneurysms (CAAs). Multivariable analysis of risk factors for death was performed using a nonproportional hazards model and a nonparametric analysis using random survival forest technology. Operative mortality after F/B-EVAR was low (3.7%), with high CAA-related survival at 30 day and 5 years (96.8% and 94.0%, respectively). All-cause 5-year survival, however, was 46.2% and older age, heart failure, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, renal disease, anemia, and coagulation disorders were risk factors. Risk was highest for those undergoing type I/II TAAA repairs and those with larger aneurysms. Patients with multiple comorbidities and those undergoing type I or II TAAA repair are at greatest risk of mortality; however, in this high-risk population, F/B-EVAR offers greater survival compared with that reported for the natural history of untreated aneurysms. Operative and early mortality is lower than the best-reported open repair outcomes, even in this high-risk population, suggesting a potential benefit in extending the use of F/B-EVAR to low-to-average risk CAA patients.	This study describes echocardiographic allograft valve function over time in a cohort of patients who were prospectively followed after allograft aortic valve or root replacement, illustrating the use of longitudinal data analysis for assessing valve function over time. Serial, standardized echocardiographic measurements of aortic regurgitation, aortic gradient, annulus diameter, left ventricular outflow tract diameter, and aortic diameter in 301 hospital survivors (mean age, 46 years; range, 16-83 years) after allograft aortic valve (N=77) or root (N=224) replacement were analyzed using nonlinear longitudinal models. Aortic regurgitation increased over time. At 15 years, 41% of patients had at least moderate aortic regurgitation. Younger patient age and subcoronary implantation technique were associated with increased aortic regurgitation. Aortic gradient increased over time (from 9.4 mm Hg at 6 months to 21.3 mm Hg at 15 years); both initial and increase in aortic gradient were greater in younger patients and after subcoronary implantation technique. Annulus diameter slightly increased (from 21.9 mm at 6 months to 22.4 mm at 15 years), whereas aortic diameter slightly decreased over time (from 34.3 mm at 6 months to 32.7 mm at 15 years). Left ventricular outflow tract diameter remained constant at 22 mm. Younger patients in the subcoronary implantation group had a larger annulus diameter. Both aortic regurgitation and stenosis increase over time after allograft aortic valve or root replacement. Younger patient age and use of the subcoronary implantation technique are associated with increased regurgitation and stenosis. The use of nonlinear longitudinal models allows for an insightful analysis of allograft valve function over time.	This study describes echocardiographic allograft valve function over time in a cohort of patients who were prospectively followed after allograft aortic valve or root replacement, illustrating the use of longitudinal data analysis for assessing valve function over time. Serial, standardized echocardiographic measurements of aortic regurgitation, aortic gradient, annulus diameter, left ventricular outflow tract diameter, and aortic diameter in 301 hospital survivors (mean age, 46 years; range, 16-83 years) after allograft aortic valve (N=77) or root (N=224) replacement were analyzed using nonlinear longitudinal models. Aortic regurgitation increased over time. At 15 years, 41% of patients had at least moderate aortic regurgitation. Younger patient age and subcoronary implantation technique were associated with increased aortic regurgitation. Aortic gradient increased over time (from 9.4 mm Hg at 6 months to 21.3 mm Hg at 15 years); both initial and increase in aortic gradient were greater in younger patients and after subcoronary implantation technique. Annulus diameter slightly increased (from 21.9 mm at 6 months to 22.4 mm at 15 years), whereas aortic diameter slightly decreased over time (from 34.3 mm at 6 months to 32.7 mm at 15 years). Left ventricular outflow tract diameter remained constant at 22 mm. Younger patients in the subcoronary implantation group had a larger annulus diameter. Both aortic regurgitation and stenosis increase over time after allograft aortic valve or root replacement. Younger patient age and use of the subcoronary implantation technique are associated with increased regurgitation and stenosis. The use of nonlinear longitudinal models allows for an insightful analysis of allograft valve function over time.
Ramamurthi, Anand	Biomedical Engineering	30061830	29701914	29264957	28875468	28087488	27884774	27860330	26830683	26652359	25376929	The use of nanomaterials to modulate the tumor microenvironment has great potential to advance outcomes in patients with lung cancer. Nanomaterials can be used to prolong the delivery time of therapeutics enabling their specific targeting to tumors while minimizing and potentially eliminating cytotoxic effects. Using nanomaterials to deliver small-molecule inhibitors for oncogene targeted therapy and cancer immunotherapy while concurrently enabling regeneration of the extracellular matrix could enhance our therapeutic reach and improve outcomes for patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The objective of this review is to highlight the role nanomedicines play in improving and reversing adverse outcomes in the tumor microenvironment for advancing treatments for targeting both diseases.	The neoassembly and maturation of elastic matrix is an important challenge for engineering small-diameter grafts for patients with peripheral artery disease. We have previously shown that hyaluronan oligomers and transforming growth factor-β (elastogenic factors or EFs) promote elastogenesis in smooth muscle cell (SMC) culture. However, their combined effects on macrophages and inflammatory cells in vivo are unknown. This information is needed to use the body (e.g., peritoneal cavity) as an &quot;in vivo bioreactor&quot; to recruit autologous cells to implanted EF-functionalized scaffolds. In this study, we determined if peritoneal fluid cells respond to EFs like smooth muscle cells and if these responses differ between cells sourced during different stages of inflammation triggered by scaffold implantation. Electrospun poly(ε-caprolactone)/collagen conduits were implanted in the peritoneal cavity prior to peritoneal fluid collection at 3-42 days postimplantation. Cells from the fluid were cultured in vitro with and without EFs to determine their response. Their phenotype/behaviour was assessed with a DNA assay, quantitative real-time PCR, and immunofluorescence. The EFs reduced peritoneal cell proliferation, maintained cell contractility, and unexpectedly did not exhibit proelastic effects, which we attributed to differences in cell density. We found the greatest elastin deposition in regions containing a high cell density. Further, we found that cells isolated from the peritoneal cavity at longer times after conduit implantation responded better to the EFs and exhibited more CD31 expression than cells at an earlier time point. Overall, this study provides information about the potential use of EFs in vivo and can guide the design of future tissue-engineered vascular grafts.	Abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs) are localized expansions of the abdominal aorta that grow slowly to rupture. AAA growth is driven by irreversible elastic matrix breakdown in the aorta wall by chronically upregulated matrix metalloproteases (MMPs). Since adult vascular smooth muscle cells (SMCs) poorly regenerate elastic matrix, we previously explored utility of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells and SMCs derived therefrom (BM-SMCs) for this purpose. One specific differentiated phenotype (cBM-SMCs) generated on a fibronectin substrate in presence of exogenous transforming growth factor-β and platelet-derived growth factor exhibited superior elastogenicity versus other phenotypes, and usefully provided proelastogenic and antiproteolytic stimuli to aneurysmal SMCs. Since in vivo cell therapy demands large cell inoculates, these derived SMCs must be propagated in vitro while maintaining their superior elastogenic, proelastogenic, and antiproteolytic characteristics. In this work, we thus investigated the culture conditions that must be provided to this propagation phase, which ensure that the differentiated SMCs maintain their phenotype and matrix regenerative benefits. Our results indicate that our BM-SMCs retain their phenotype in long-term culture even in the absence of differentiation growth factors and fibronectin substrate, but these conditions must be continued to be provided during postdifferentiation propagation if they are to maintain their superior elastic matrix deposition, crosslinking, and fiber formation properties. Our study, however, showed that cells propagated under these conditions exhibit higher expression of MMP-2, but favorably, no expression of elastolytic MMP-9. Hence, the study outcomes provide crucial guidelines to maintain phenotypic stability of cBM-SMCs during their propagation in two-dimensional culture before their delivery to the AAA wall for therapy.	Growth of abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA), localized aortal wall expansions, is driven by the disruption and subsequent loss of aortal wall elastic fibers by matrix metalloproteases (MMPs). Since elastic fibers do not naturally regenerate or repair, arresting/reversing AAA growth has not been possible. Previously, we showed utility of doxycycline (DOX), an MMP inhibitor drug, to stimulate elastic matrix neoassembly and crosslinking at low microgram per milliliter doses in addition to inhibiting MMPs. We currently show in aneurysmal smooth muscle cell (SMC) cultures that effects of exogenous DOX in this dose range are linked to its upregulation of transforming growth factor beta (TGF-β1) via its inhibition of the regulatory protein c-Jun-N-terminal kinase 2 (JNK 2). We have identified a DOX dose range that stimulates elastogenesis and crosslinking without adversely impacting cell viability. Using JNK 2 inhibition as a metric for pro-regenerative matrix effects of DOX, we further demonstrate that sustained, steady-state release of DOX at the useful dose, from poly(ethylene glycol)-poly(lactic glycolic acid) nanoparticles (NPs), provides pro-elastogenic and anti-proteolytic effects that could potentially be more pronounced than that of exogenous DOX. We attribute these outcomes to previously determined synergistic effects provided by cationic amphiphile groups functionalizing the polymer NP surface. Released DOX inhibited expression and phosphorylation of JNK to likely increase expression of TGF-β1, which is known to increase elastogenesis and lysyl oxidase-mediated crosslinking of elastic matrix. Our results suggest that JNK inhibition is a useful metric to assess pro-elastic matrix regenerative effects and point to the combinatorial regenerative benefits provided by DOX and cationic-functionalized NPs.	Abdominal Aortic Aneurysms (AAA) involve slow dilation and weakening of the aortic wall due to breakdown of structural matrix components, such as elastic fibers by chronically overexpressed matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), primarily, MMPs-2 and -9. Auto-regenerative repair of disrupted elastic fibers by smooth muscle cells (SMCs) at the AAA site is intrinsically poor and together with chronic proteolysis prevents restoration of elastin homeostasis, necessary to enable AAA growth arrest or regression to a healthy state. Oral doxycycline (DOX) therapy can inhibit MMPs to slow AAA growth, but has systemwide side-effects and inhibits new elastin deposition within AAA tissue, diminishing prospects for restoring elastin homeostasis preventing the arrest/regression of AAA growth. We have thus developed cationic amphiphile (DMAB)-modified submicron particles (SMPs) that uniquely exhibit pro-elastogenic and anti-proteolytic properties, separate from similar effects of the encapsulated drug. These SMPs can enable sustained, low dose DOX delivery within AAA tissue to augment elastin regenerative repair. To provide greater specificity of SMP targeting, we have conjugated the DOX-SMP surface with an antibody against cathepsin K, a lysosomal protease that is highly overexpressed within AAA tissue. We have determined conditions for efficient cathepsin K Ab conjugation onto the SMPs, improved SMP binding to aneurysmal SMCs in culture and to injured vessel walls ex vivo, conjugation did not affect DOX release from the SMPs, and improved pro-elastogenic and anti-proteolytic effects due to the SMPs likely due to their increased proximity to cells via binding. Our study results suggest that cathepsin K Ab conjugation is a useful targeting modality for our pro-regenerative SMPs. Future studies will investigate SMP retention and biodistribution following targeting to induced AAAs in rat models through intravenous or catheter-based aortal infusion and thereafter their efficacy for regenerative elastic matrix repair in the AAA wall. Proactive screening of high risk elderly patients now enables early detection of Abdominal Aortic Aneurysms (AAAs). Current management of small, growing AAAs is limited to passive, imaging based growth monitoring. There are also no established drug-based therapeutic alternatives to surgery for AAAs, which is unsuitable for many elderly patients, and none which can achieve restore disrupted and lost elastic matrix in the AAA wall, which is essential to achieve growth arrest or regression. We seek to test the feasibility of a regenerative therapy based on localized, one time delivery of drug-releasing Sub-Micron-sized drug delivery polymer Particles (SMPs) that are also uniquely chemically functionalized on their surface to also provide them pro-elastin-regenerative &amp; anti-matrix degradative properties, and also conjugated with antibodies targeting cathepsin K, an elastolytic enzyme that is highly overexpressed in AAA tissues; the latter serves as a modality to enable targeted binding of the SMPs to the AAA wall following intravenous infusion, or intraoartal, catheter-based delivery. Such SMPs can potentially stimulate structural repair in the AAA wall following one time infusion to delay or prevent AAA growth to rupture. The therapy can provide a non-surgical treatment option for high risk AAA patients.	Arresting or regressing growth of abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs), localized expansions of the abdominal aorta are contingent on inhibiting chronically overexpressed matrix metalloproteases (MMPs)-2 and -9 that disrupt elastic matrix within the aortic wall, concurrent with providing a stimulus to augmenting inherently poor auto-regeneration of these matrix structures. In a recent study we demonstrated that localized, controlled and sustained delivery of doxycycline (DOX; a tetracycline-based antibiotic) from poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) nanoparticles (PLGA NPs), enhances elastic matrix deposition and MMP-inhibition at a fraction of the therapeutically effective oral dose. The surface functionalization of these NPs with cationic amphiphiles, which enhances their arterial uptake, was also shown to have pro-matrix regenerative and anti-MMP effects independent of the DOX. Based on the hypothesis that the incorporation of superparamagnetic iron oxide NPs (SPIONs) within these PLGA NPs would enhance their targetability to the AAA site under an applied external magnetic field, we sought to evaluate the functional effects of NPs co-encapsulating DOX and SPIONs (DOX-SPION NPs) on elastic matrix regeneration and MMP synthesis/activity in vitro within aneurysmal smooth muscle cell (EaRASMC) cultures. The DOX-SPION NPs were mobile under an applied external magnetic field, while enhancing elastic matrix deposition 1.5-2-fold and significantly inhibiting MMP-2 synthesis and MMP-2 and -9 activities, compared to NP-untreated control cultures. These results illustrate that the multifunctional benefits of NPs are maintained following SPION co-incorporation. Additionally, preliminary studies carried out demonstrated enhanced targetability of SPION-loaded NPs within proteolytically-disrupted porcine carotid arteries ex vivo, under the influence of an applied external magnetic field. Thus, this dual-agent loaded NP system proffers a potential non-surgical option for treating small growing AAAs, via controlled and sustained drug release from multifunctional, targetable nanocarriers. Proactive screening of high risk elderly patients now enables early detection of abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs). There are no established drug-based therapeutic alternatives to surgery for AAAs, which is unsuitable for many elderly patients, and none which can achieve restore disrupted and lost elastic matrix in the AAA wall, which is essential to achieve growth arrest or regression. We have developed a first generation design of polymer nanoparticles (NPs) for AAA tissue localized delivery of doxycycline, a modified tetracycline drug at low micromolar doses at which it provides both pro-elastogenic and anti-proteolytic benefits that can augment elastic matrix regenerative repair. The nanocarriers themselves are also uniquely chemically functionalized on their surface to also provide them pro-elastin-regenerative &amp; anti-matrix degradative properties. To provide an active driving force for efficient uptake of intra-lumenally infused NPs to the AAA wall, in this work, we have rendered our polymer NPs mobile in an applied magnetic field via co-incorporation of super-paramagnetic iron oxide NPs. We demonstrate that such modifications significantly improve wall uptake of the NPs with no significant changes to their physical properties and regenerative benefits. Such NPs can potentially stimulate structural repair in the AAA wall following one time infusion to delay or prevent AAA growth to rupture. The therapy can provide a non-surgical treatment option for high risk AAA patients.	Chronic proteolytic disruption of elastic fibres within the abdominal aortic wall results in wall vessel expansion to form rupture-prone abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA). Arresting AAA growth is not possible as adult vascular smooth muscle cells (SMCs) poorly auto-regenerate and repair elastic fibres. Thus, there is a need to identify alternate cell sources capable of robust elastic matrix assembly to overcome elastolysis in the AAA wall. Previously, we demonstrated the superior elastogenic properties of rat bone marrow mesenchymal stem cell (BM-MSC)-derived SMCs (BM-SMCs) relative to aneurysmal and healthy rat aortic SMCs. In the present study, we investigate how phenotypic coordinates of the derived BM-SMCs, in turn dependent on conditions of BM-MSC differentiation, impact their elastic matrix synthesis abilities. More specifically, we investigated how glucose content, serum levels and the presence of transforming growth factor (TGF)-β1 supplements alone or together with platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF-BB) in the differentiation medium influence phenotype of, and elastogenesis by derived rat BM-SMCs. BM-SMCs generated in low-glucose and 10% v/v serum conditions in the presence of TGF-β1 with or without PDGF-BB exhibited a mature phenotype characterized by contractility and migrative tendencies similar to healthy rat aortic SMCs, and yet capable of robust tropoelastin (precursor) synthesis and assembly of a fibrous, highly crosslinked elastic matrix. Thus, we have identified metrics and conditions for selecting BM-SMCs with superior elastogenesis for in situ elastic matrix regeneration. Future studies will focus on characterizing these specific BM-SMC subtypes for their pro-elastogenic and anti-proteolytic effects on aneurysmal SMCs to confirm their preferred use for therapy aimed at AAA tissue regenerative repair. Copyright © 2016 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.	Abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA) represent abnormal aortal expansions that result from chronic proteolytic breakdown of elastin and collagen fibers by matrix metalloproteases. Poor elastogenesis by adult vascular smooth muscle cells (SMCs) limits regenerative repair of elastic fibers, critical for AAA growth arrest. Toward overcoming these limitations, we recently demonstrated significant elastogenesis by bone marrow mesenchymal stem cell-derived SMCs (BM-SMCs) and their proelastogenesis and antiproteolytic effects on rat aneurysmal SMCs (EaRASMCs). We currently investigate the effects of super paramagnetic iron oxide nanoparticle (SPION) labeling of BM-SMCs, necessary to magnetically guide them to the AAA wall, on their functional benefits. Our results indicate that SPION-labeling is noncytotoxic and does not adversely impact the phenotype and elastogenesis by BM-SMCs. In addition, SPION-BM-SMCs showed no changes in the ability of the BM-SMCs to stimulate elastin regeneration and attenuate proteolytic activity by EaRASMCs. Together, our results are promising toward the utility of SPIONs for magnetic targeting of BM-SMCs for in situ AAA regenerative repair. 	Abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs) involve chronic overexpression of proteases in the aortic wall that result in disruption of elastic fibers and consequent loss of vessel elasticity. Nearly 75% of AAAs contain flow-obstructing, fibrin-rich intraluminal thrombi (ILT), which act as a) a bioinert shield, protecting the underlying AAA wall from high hemodynamic stresses, and b) a reservoir of inflammatory cells and proteases that cause matrix breakdown. For these reasons, restoring flow through the aorta lumen and facilitating transmural diffusion of therapeutics from circulation to the AAA wall must be achieved by slow thrombolysis of the ILT to render it porous without rapid breakdown. Intravenously dosed tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) has been shown to rapidly lyse ILTs in acute stroke and myocardial infarctions. For future use in opening up AAA segments, in this study, we investigated the ability of tPA released from poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) nanoparticles (PLGA NPs) to slowly lyse fibrin clots without inducing proteolytic injury and matrix synthesis-inhibitory effects on cultured rat aneurysmal smooth muscle cells (EaRASMCs). Fibrin clot lysis time was greatly extended over that in presence of exogenous tPA. Surface functionalization of NPs with a cationic amphiphile allowed them to bind to anionic fibrin clot, release tPA at a slower rate and to lyse the clot as a front proceeding outwards in unlike the more rapid and homogenous lysis that occurred due to anionic PLGA NPs. Elastic matrix content was decreased in EaRASMC cultures exposed to byproducts of clot lysis with exogenous tPA, but not tPA-NPs, and was likely due to increased proteolytic activity (MMPs, plasmin) in EaRASMC cultures exposed to exogenous tPA-lysed clots. Our results suggest that gradual ILT lysis via slow release of tPA from NPs will be likely beneficial over exogenous tPA delivery in preserving elastic matrix content and attenuating matrilysis in the adjoining AAA wall, in vivo, while rendering the ILT porous to facilitate transmural delivery of endoluminally delivered AAA therapeutics. 	Abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs) involve slow proteolysis and loss of structural matrix components (collagen and elastin), which lead to wall thinning, weakening and ultimate rupture. At this time, no established non-surgical therapy is available to slow or arrest AAA growth. Inhibiting matrix metalloproteases (MMPs; e.g. MMP2 and -9) overexpressed within AAAs is insufficient to arrest AAA growth, since resident smooth muscle cells (SMCs) are poorly elastogenic and cannot overcome elastolysis to reinstate a healthy elastic matrix. Towards overcoming this limitation, this first study sought to determine the utility of rat bone marrow mesenchymal stem cell (BM-MSC)-derived SMCs to stimulate elastin and elastic matrix synthesis and assembly by aneurysmal SMCs (EaRASMCs). BM-MSCs were successfully differentiated into cells of an SMC lineage (SMLCs). Our study indicates that BM-MSC-derived SMLCs secrete trophic factors, contained in conditioned medium (CM) from their cultures, that, when exposed to EaRASMC cultures in real time, stimulate elastin precursor and matrix deposition and crosslinking by these elastogenically deficient cells, with added benefits in terms of attenuating MMPs, specifically MMP9. The results thus lend support to a proposed cell therapy for AAAs, based on the use of BM-MSC-derived SMLCs. Although we observed no particular improvement in elastic fibre formation, no attenuation of MMP2 activity and increase in amounts of active MMP2 enzyme, we believe that this study justifies follow-up studies to improve upon these outcomes. Future studies will explore the effects of concentrated CM collected from long-term SMLC cultures on EaRASMCs and also investigate the elastogenic output of SMLCs themselves. Copyright © 2014 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.
Rao, Sujata	Ophthalmic Research	31002540	29045837	26720479	23334418	18039971	16163358	11726512	30936473	28356706	25715397	A single pool of multipotent retinal progenitor cells give rise to the diverse cell types within the mammalian retina. Such cellular diversity is due to precise control of various cellular processes like cell specification, proliferation, differentiation, and maturation. Circadian clock genes can control the expression of key regulators of cell cycle progression and therefore can synchronize the cell cycle state of a heterogeneous population of cells. Here we show that the protein encoded by the circadian clock gene brain and muscle arnt-like protein-1 (Bmal1) is expressed in the embryonic retina and is required to regulate the timing of cell cycle exit. Accordingly, loss of Bmal1 during retinal neurogenesis results in increased S-phase entry and delayed cell cycle exit. Disruption in cell cycle kinetics affects the timely generation of the appropriate neuronal population thus leading to an overall decrease in the number of retinal ganglion cells, amacrine cells, and an increase in the number of the late-born type II cone bipolar cells as well as the Müller glia. Additionally, the mislocalized Müller cells are observed in the photoreceptor layer in the Bmal1 conditional mutants. These changes affect the functional integrity of the visual circuitry as we report a significant delay in visual evoked potential implicit time in the retina-specific Bmal1 null animals. Our results demonstrate that Bmal1 is required to maintain the balance between the neural and glial cells in the embryonic retina by coordinating the timing of cell cycle entry and exit. Thus, Bmal1 plays an essential role during retinal neurogenesis affecting both development and function of the mature retina.-Sawant, O. B., Jidigam, V. K., Fuller, R. D., Zucaro, O. F., Kpegba, C., Yu, M., Peachey, N. S., Rao, S. The circadian clock gene Bmal1 is required to control the timing of retinal neurogenesis and lamination of Müller glia in the mouse retina.	Circadian clocks regulate various aspects of photoreceptor physiology, but their contribution to photoreceptor development and function is unclear. Cone photoreceptors are critical for color vision. Here, we define the molecular function of circadian activity within cone photoreceptors and reveal a role for the clock genes Bmal1 and Per2 in regulating cone spectral identity. ChIP analysis revealed that BMAL1 binds to the promoter region of the thyroid hormone (TH)-activating enzyme type 2 iodothyronine deiodinase (Dio2) and thus regulates the expression of Dio2. TH treatment resulted in a partial rescue of the phenotype caused by the loss of Bmal1, thus revealing a functional relationship between Bmal1 and Dio2 in establishing cone photoreceptor identity. Furthermore, Bmal1 and Dio2 are required to maintain cone photoreceptor functional integrity. Overall, our results suggest a mechanism by which circadian proteins can locally regulate the availability of TH and influence tissue development and function.	Ambient light is both a stimulus for visual function and a regulator of photoreceptor physiology. However, it is not known if light can regulate any aspect of photoreceptor development. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether ambient light is required for the development of mouse rod photoreceptors. Newborn mouse pups (C57BL/6) were reared in either cyclic light (LD) or constant dark (DD). Pups were collected at postnatal day (P)5, P10, P17, or P24. We performed retinal morphometric and cell death analysis at P5, P10, and P17. Rhodopsin expression was assessed using immunofluorescence, Western blot, and quantitative RT-PCR analysis. Electroretinograms were performed at P17 and P24. Radioimmunoassay and ELISA were used to follow changes in thyroid hormone levels in the serum and vitreous. In the DD pups, the outer nuclear layer was significantly thinner at P10 and there were higher numbers of apoptotic cells at P5 compared to the LD pups. Rhodopsin expression was lower at P10 and P17 in DD pups. Electroretinogram a-waves were reduced in amplitude at P17 in the DD pups. The DD animals had lower levels of circulating thyroid hormones at P10. Light-mediated changes in thyroid hormones occur as early as P5, as we detected lower levels of total triiodothyronine in the vitreous from the DD animals. Drug-induced developmental hypothyroidism resulted in lower rhodopsin expression at P10. Our data demonstrate that light exposure during postnatal development is required for rod photoreceptor development and that this effect could be mediated by thyroid hormone signaling.	Vascular patterning is critical for organ function. In the eye, there is simultaneous regression of embryonic hyaloid vasculature (important to clear the optical path) and formation of the retinal vasculature (important for the high metabolic demands of retinal neurons). These events occur postnatally in the mouse. Here we have identified a light-response pathway that regulates both processes. We show that when mice are mutated in the gene (Opn4) for the atypical opsin melanopsin, or are dark-reared from late gestation, the hyaloid vessels are persistent at 8 days post-partum and the retinal vasculature overgrows. We provide evidence that these vascular anomalies are explained by a light-response pathway that suppresses retinal neuron number, limits hypoxia and, as a consequence, holds local expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGFA) in check. We also show that the light response for this pathway occurs in late gestation at about embryonic day 16 and requires the photopigment in the fetus and not the mother. Measurements show that visceral cavity photon flux is probably sufficient to activate melanopsin-expressing retinal ganglion cells in the mouse fetus. These data thus show that light--the stimulus for function of the mature eye--is also critical in preparing the eye for vision by regulating retinal neuron number and initiating a series of events that ultimately pattern the ocular blood vessels.	Macrophages have a critical function in the recognition and engulfment of dead cells. In some settings, macrophages also actively signal programmed cell death. Here we show that during developmentally scheduled vascular regression, resident macrophages are an obligatory participant in a signaling switch that favors death over survival. This switch occurs when the signaling ligand angiopoietin 2 has the dual effect of suppressing survival signaling in vascular endothelial cells (VECs) and stimulating Wnt ligand production by macrophages. In response to the Wnt ligand, VECs enter the cell cycle and in the absence of survival signals, die from G1 phase of the cell cycle. We propose that this mechanism represents an adaptation to ensure that the macrophage and its disposal capability are on hand when cell death occurs.	Macrophages have a critical role in inflammatory and immune responses through their ability to recognize and engulf apoptotic cells. Here we show that macrophages initiate a cell-death programme in target cells by activating the canonical WNT pathway. We show in mice that macrophage WNT7b is a short-range paracrine signal required for WNT-pathway responses and programmed cell death in the vascular endothelial cells of the temporary hyaloid vessels of the developing eye. These findings indicate that macrophages can use WNT ligands to influence cell-fate decisions--including cell death--in adjacent cells, and raise the possibility that they do so in many different cellular contexts.	Vesicle fusion in eukaryotic cells is mediated by SNAREs (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptors). In neurons, the t-SNARE SNAP-25 is essential for synaptic vesicle fusion but its exact role in this process is unknown. We have isolated a SNAP-25 temperature-sensitive paralytic mutant in Drosophila, SNAP-25(ts). The mutation causes a Gly50 to Glu change in SNAP-25's first amphipathic helix. A similar mutation in the yeast homologue SEC9 also results in temperature sensitivity, implying a conserved role for this domain in secretion. In vitro-generated 70 kDa SNARE complexes containing SNAP-25(ts) are thermally stable but the mutant SNARE multimers (of approximately 120 kDa) rapidly dissociate at 37 degrees C. The SNAP-25(ts) mutant has two effects on neurotransmitter release depending upon temperature. At 22 degrees C, evoked release of neurotransmitter in SNAP-25(ts) larvae is greatly increased, and at 37 degrees C, the release of neurotransmitter is reduced as compared with controls. Our data suggest that at 22 degrees C the mutation causes the SNARE complex to be more fusion competent but, at 37 degrees C the same mutation leads to SNARE multimer instability and fusion incompetence.	During mouse postnatal eye development, the embryonic hyaloid vascular network regresses from the vitreous as an adaption for high-acuity vision. This process occurs with precisely controlled timing. Here, we show that opsin 5 (OPN5; also known as neuropsin)-dependent retinal light responses regulate vascular development in the postnatal eye. In Opn5-null mice, hyaloid vessels regress precociously. We demonstrate that 380-nm light stimulation via OPN5 and VGAT (the vesicular GABA/glycine transporter) in retinal ganglion cells enhances the activity of inner retinal DAT (also known as SLC6A3; a dopamine reuptake transporter) and thus suppresses vitreal dopamine. In turn, dopamine acts directly on hyaloid vascular endothelial cells to suppress the activity of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR2) and promote hyaloid vessel regression. With OPN5 loss of function, the vitreous dopamine level is elevated and results in premature hyaloid regression. These investigations identify violet light as a developmental timing cue that, via an OPN5-dopamine pathway, regulates optic axis clearance in preparation for visual function.	Familial exudative vitreoretinopathy (FEVR) is caused by mutations in the genes encoding low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein (LRP5) or its interacting partners, namely frizzled class receptor 4 (FZD4) and norrin cystine knot growth factor (NDP). Mouse models for Lrp5, Fzd4, and Ndp have proven to be important for understanding the retinal pathophysiology underlying FEVR and systemic abnormalities related to defective Wnt signaling. Here, we report a new mouse mutant, tvrm111B, which was identified by electroretinogram (ERG) screening of mice generated in the Jackson Laboratory Translational Vision Research Models (TVRM) mutagenesis program. ERGs were used to examine outer retinal physiology. The retinal vasculature was examined by in vivo retinal imaging, as well as by histology and immunohistochemistry. The tvrm111B locus was identified by genetic mapping of mice generated in a cross to DBA/2J, and subsequent sequencing analysis. Gene expression was examined by real-time PCR of retinal RNA. Bone mineral density (BMD) was examined by peripheral dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry. The tvrm111B allele is inherited as an autosomal recessive trait. Genetic mapping of the decreased ERG b-wave phenotype of tvrm111B mice localized the mutation to a region on chromosome 19 that included Lrp5. Sequencing of Lrp5 identified the insertion of a cytosine (c.4724_4725insC), which is predicted to cause a frameshift that disrupts the last three of five conserved PPPSPxS motifs in the cytoplasmic domain of LRP5, culminating in a premature termination. In addition to a reduced ERG b-wave, Lrp5<sup>tvrm111B</sup> homozygotes have low BMD and abnormal features of the retinal vasculature that have been reported previously in Lrp5 mutant mice, including persistent hyaloid vessels, leakage on fluorescein angiography, and an absence of the deep retinal capillary bed. The phenotype of the Lrp5<sup>tvrm111B</sup> mutant includes abnormalities of the retinal vasculature and of BMD. This model may be a useful resource to further our understanding of the biological role of LRP5 and to evaluate experimental therapies for FEVR or other conditions associated with LRP5 dysfunction.	The Wnt/β-catenin response pathway is central to many developmental processes. Here, we assessed the role of Wnt signaling in early eye development using the mouse as a model system. We showed that the surface ectoderm region that includes the lens placode expressed 12 out of 19 possible Wnt ligands. When these activities were suppressed by conditional deletion of wntless (Le-cre; Wls(fl/fl)) there were dramatic consequences that included a saucer-shaped optic cup, ventral coloboma, and a deficiency of periocular mesenchyme. This phenotype shared features with that produced when the Wnt/β-catenin pathway co-receptor Lrp6 is mutated or when retinoic acid (RA) signaling in the eye is compromised. Consistent with this, microarray and cell fate marker analysis identified a series of expression changes in genes known to be regulated by RA or by the Wnt/β-catenin pathway. Using pathway reporters, we showed that Wnt ligands from the surface ectoderm directly or indirectly elicit a Wnt/β-catenin response in retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) progenitors near the optic cup rim. In Le-cre; Wls(fl/fl) mice, the numbers of RPE cells are reduced and this can explain, using the principle of the bimetallic strip, the curvature of the optic cup. These data thus establish a novel hypothesis to explain how differential cell numbers in a bilayered epithelium can lead to shape change. 
Raska, Paola	Quantitative Health Sciences	28752189	27324504	25519390	22590501	22373165	22303333	22128058	20018043	23535648	22412386	Genomic profiling can identify targetable mutations; however, the impact of tissue-based genomic profiling on clinical decision making for patients with metastatic breast cancer has not been well characterized. Patients with stage IV breast cancer who had undergone genomic profiling between 7/2013 and 3/2015 were identified at three academic cancer centers. Genomic analysis was determined to have impacted clinical decision if (A) a patient was enrolled onto a genotype-matched clinical trial or (B) prescribed off-label an FDA-approved therapy targeting an identified mutation. The frequency of mutated genes was determined. A total of 117 patients with stage IV breast cancer were identified. Median age was 46 (25-75). Fifty-three patients (45%) had ER-positive/HER2-negative disease, 50 (43%) had ER-negative/HER2-negative disease, and 14 (12%) had ER-any/HER2-positive disease. Median number of previous therapies received prior to genomic profiling was 2 (range 0-15), and median follow-up after testing was obtained after 5.8 months (range 0-24.4 months). Commercial reports indicated that 85 (73%) patients had at least one mutation targetable by an FDA-approved medication, and 112 (96%) patients had at least one clinical trial available; however, clinical management was only affected in 11 patients (9%). The most frequent mutations observed were those in TP53, FGF, PI3KCA, MYC, ZNF, FGFR, CCND, ARID1A, GATA3, and MAP; frequencies of these mutations varied by clinical subtype. Tumor genomic profiling affected clinical management in a minority of patients with metastatic breast cancer, thus these data do not support the routine use of genomic profiling outside of a clinical trial.	Pertuzumab is FDA approved in the preoperative setting in combination with trastuzumab and chemotherapy, in women with nonmetastatic HER2 + breast cancer. The TRYPHAENA trial (n = 77) reported a pathologic complete response rate (pCR), i.e., ypT0ypN0, of 52 % in patients treated with neoadjuvant (docetaxel, carboplatin, trastuzumab, &amp; pertuzumab) TCH-P. Aside from this study, there is limited information regarding the safety and efficacy of TCH-P in the neoadjuvant setting. Our goal was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of neoadjuvant TCH-P in a non-clinical trial setting. Cancer data registry was utilized to identify patients with HER2 + nonmetastatic breast cancer that received neoadjuvant TCH-P. pCR was defined as the absence of invasive or noninvasive cancer in breast and lymph nodes, i.e., ypT0ypN0. 70 patients with a median age of 52 years met our inclusion criteria. Clinical staging was I-8.5 %; II-68.5 %; and III-22.8 %. 60 % of patients had hormone receptor (HR)-positive tumors. 23 % (16/71) of patients required dose reduction for rash, diarrhea, neuropathy, or thrombocytopenia. Overall, no patients developed grade 3-4 left ventricular systolic dysfunction(LVSD); an asymptomatic reduction in LVEF of &gt;10 % was observed in three patients. The overall observed pCR rate was 53 %. As expected, the pCR rate was higher in patients with HR-negative breast cancer than for patients with HR+ disease: 69 % (20/29) vs. 42 % (17/41), respectively. The axillary downstaging rate was approximately 53 % (19/36). Neoadjuvant TCH-P, in a nonclinical trial setting, was associated with a pCR rate of 53 % similar the reported rate in TRYPHAENA. Toxicity was manageable, with no patients experiencing symptomatic heart failure.	Inferring population genetic structure from large-scale genotyping of single-nucleotide polymorphisms or variants is an important technique for studying the history and distribution of extant human populations, but it is also a very important tool for adjusting tests of association. However, the structures inferred depend on the minor allele frequency of the variants; this is very important when considering the phenotypic association of rare variants. Using the Genetic Analysis Workshop 18 data set for 142 unrelated individuals, which includes genotypes for many rare variants, we study the following hypothesis: the difference in detected structure is the result of a &quot;scale&quot; effect; that is, rare variants are likely to be shared only locally (smaller scale), while common variants can be spread over longer distances. The result is similar to that of using kernel principal component analysis, as the bandwidth of the kernel is changed. We show how different structures become evident as we consider rare or common variants. 	We investigated the ability of several principal components analysis (PCA)-based strategies to detect and control for population stratification using data from a multi-center study of epithelial ovarian cancer among women of European-American ethnicity. These include a correction based on an ancestry informative markers (AIMs) panel designed to capture European ancestral variation and corrections utilizing un-thinned genome-wide SNP data; case-control samples were drawn from four geographically distinct North-American sites. The AIMs-only and genome-wide first principal components (PC1) both corresponded to the previously described North or Northwest-Southeast axis of European variation. We found that the genome-wide PCA captured this primary dimension of variation more precisely and identified additional axes of genome-wide variation of relevance to epithelial ovarian cancer. Associations evident between the genome-wide PCs and study site corroborate North American immigration history and suggest that undiscovered dimensions of variation lie within Northern Europe. The structure captured by the genome-wide PCA was also found within control individuals and did not reflect the case-control variation present in the data. The genome-wide PCA highlighted three regions of local LD, corresponding to the lactase (LCT) gene on chromosome 2, the human leukocyte antigen system (HLA) on chromosome 6 and to a common inversion polymorphism on chromosome 8. These features did not compromise the efficacy of PCs from this analysis for ancestry control. This study concludes that although AIMs panels are a cost-effective way of capturing population structure, genome-wide data should preferably be used when available.	Next-generation sequencing allows for a new focus on rare variant density for conducting analyses of association to disease and for narrowing down the genomic regions that show evidence of functionality. In this study we use the 1000 Genomes Project pilot data as distributed by Genetic Analysis Workshop 17 to compare rare variant densities across seven populations. We made the comparisons using regressions of rare variants on total variant counts per gene for each population and Tajima's D values calculated for each gene in each population, using data on 3,205 genes. We found that the populations clustered by continent for both the regression slopes and Tajima's D values, with the African populations (Yoruba and Luhya) showing the highest density of rare variants, followed by the Asian populations (Han and Denver Chinese followed by the Japanese) and the European populations (CEPH [European-descent] and Tuscan) with the lowest densities. These significant differences in rare variant densities across populations seem to translate to measures of the rare variant density more commonly used in rare variant association analyses, suggesting the need to adjust for ancestry in such analyses. The selection signal was high for AHNAK, HLA-A, RANBP2, and RGPD4, among others. RANBP2 and RGPD4 showed a marked difference in rare variant density and potential selection between the Luhya and the other populations. This may suggest that differences between populations should be considered when delimiting genomic regions according to functionality and that these differences can create potential for disease heterogeneity.	In this study, we assessed association of genome-wide association studies (GWAS) &quot;hits&quot; by race with adjustment for potential population stratification (PS) in two large, diverse study populations; the Carolina Breast Cancer Study (CBCS; N total = 3693 individuals) and the University of Pennsylvania Study of Clinical Outcomes, Risk, and Ethnicity (SCORE; N total = 1135 individuals). In both study populations, 136 ancestry information markers and GWAS &quot;hits&quot; (CBCS: FGFR2, 8q24; SCORE: JAZF1, MSMB, 8q24) were genotyped. Principal component analysis was used to assess ancestral differences by race. Multivariable unconditional logistic regression was used to assess differences in cancer risk with and without adjustment for the first ancestral principal component (PC1) and for an interaction effect between PC1 and the GWAS &quot;hit&quot; (SNP) of interest. PC1 explained 53.7% of the variance for CBCS and 49.5% of the variance for SCORE. European Americans and African Americans were similar in their ancestral structure between CBCS and SCORE and cases and controls were well matched by ancestry. In the CBCS European Americans, 9/11 SNPs were significant after PC1 adjustment, but after adjustment for the PC1 by SNP interaction effect, only one SNP remained significant (rs1219648 in FGFR2); for CBCS African Americans, 6/11 SNPs were significant after PC1 adjustment and after adjustment for the PC1 by SNP interaction effect, all six SNPs remained significant and an additional SNP now became significant. In the SCORE European Americans, 0/9 SNPs were significant after PC1 adjustment and no changes were seen after additional adjustment for the PC1 by SNP interaction effect; for SCORE African Americans, 2/9 SNPs were significant after PC1 adjustment and after adjustment for the PC1 by SNP interaction effect, only one SNP remained significant (rs16901979 at 8q24). We show that genetic associations by race are modified by interaction between individual SNPs and PS.	Next-generation sequencing technology provides new opportunities and challenges in the search for genetic variants that underlie complex traits. It will also presumably uncover many new rare variants, but exactly how these variants should be incorporated into the data analysis remains a question. Several papers in our group from Genetic Analysis Workshop 17 evaluated different methods of rare variant analysis, including single-variant, gene-based, and pathway-based analyses and analyses that incorporated biological information. Although the performance of some of these methods strongly depends on the underlying disease model, integration of known biological information is helpful in detecting causal genes. Two work groups demonstrated that use of a Bayesian network and a collapsing receiver operating characteristic curve approach improves risk prediction when a disease is caused by many rare variants. Another work group suggested that modeling local rather than global ancestry may be beneficial when controlling the effect of population structure in rare variant association analysis.	 The Metabolic Syndrome (MetSyn), which is a clustering of traits including insulin resistance, obesity, hypertension and dyslipidemia, is estimated to have a substantial genetic component, yet few specific genetic targets have been identified. Factor analysis, a sub-type of structural equation modeling (SEM), has been used to model the complex relationships in MetSyn. Therefore, we aimed to define the genetic determinants of MetSyn in the Framingham Heart Study (Offspring Cohort, Exam 7) using the Affymetrix 50 k Human Gene Panel and three different approaches: 1) an association-based &quot;one-SNP-at-a-time&quot; analysis with MetSyn as a binary trait using the World Health Organization criteria; 2) an association-based &quot;one-SNP-at-a-time&quot; analysis with MetSyn as a continuous trait using second-order factor scores derived from four first-order factors; and, 3) a multivariate SEM analysis with MetSyn as a continuous, second-order factor modeled with multiple putative genes, which were represented by latent constructs defined using multiple SNPs in each gene. Results were similar between approaches in that CSMD1 SNPs were associated with MetSyn in Approaches 1 and 2; however, the effects of CSMD1 diminished in Approach 3 when modeled simultaneously with six other genes, most notably CETP and STARD13, which were strongly associated with the Lipids and MetSyn factors, respectively. We conclude that modeling multiple genes as latent constructs on first-order trait factors, most proximal to the gene's function with limited paths directly from genes to the second-order MetSyn factor, using SEM is the most viable approach toward understanding overall gene variation effects in the presence of multiple putative SNPs.	Epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) has a heritable component that remains to be fully characterized. Most identified common susceptibility variants lie in non-protein-coding sequences. We hypothesized that variants in the 3' untranslated region at putative microRNA (miRNA)-binding sites represent functional targets that influence EOC susceptibility. Here, we evaluate the association between 767 miRNA-related single-nucleotide polymorphisms (miRSNPs) and EOC risk in 18,174 EOC cases and 26,134 controls from 43 studies genotyped through the Collaborative Oncological Gene-environment Study. We identify several miRSNPs associated with invasive serous EOC risk (odds ratio=1.12, P=10(-8)) mapping to an inversion polymorphism at 17q21.31. Additional genotyping of non-miRSNPs at 17q21.31 reveals stronger signals outside the inversion (P=10(-10)). Variation at 17q21.31 is associated with neurological diseases, and our collaboration is the first to report an association with EOC susceptibility. An integrated molecular analysis in this region provides evidence for ARHGAP27 and PLEKHM1 as candidate EOC susceptibility genes.	Most individuals throughout the Americas are admixed descendants of Native American, European, and African ancestors. Complex historical factors have resulted in varying proportions of ancestral contributions between individuals within and among ethnic groups. We developed a panel of 446 ancestry informative markers (AIMs) optimized to estimate ancestral proportions in individuals and populations throughout Latin America. We used genome-wide data from 953 individuals from diverse African, European, and Native American populations to select AIMs optimized for each of the three main continental populations that form the basis of modern Latin American populations. We selected markers on the basis of locus-specific branch length to be informative, well distributed throughout the genome, capable of being genotyped on widely available commercial platforms, and applicable throughout the Americas by minimizing within-continent heterogeneity. We then validated the panel in samples from four admixed populations by comparing ancestry estimates based on the AIMs panel to estimates based on genome-wide association study (GWAS) data. The panel provided balanced discriminatory power among the three ancestral populations and accurate estimates of individual ancestry proportions (R² &gt; 0.9 for ancestral components with significant between-subject variance). Finally, we genotyped samples from 18 populations from Latin America using the AIMs panel and estimated variability in ancestry within and between these populations. This panel and its reference genotype information will be useful resources to explore population history of admixture in Latin America and to correct for the potential effects of population stratification in admixed samples in the region.
Reizes, Ofer	Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences	31167163	29955847	28838952	28729467	27221339	27105520	25827713	24025407	21636700	20923696	Breast cancer is the most prevalent malignancy and second leading cause of death in women worldwide, with hormone receptor-positive luminal breast cancers being the most widespread subtype. While these tumors are generally amenable to endocrine therapy, cellular heterogeneity and acquired ability of tumor cells to undergo cell state switching makes these populations difficult to be fully targeted and eradicated through conventional methods. We have leveraged a quality-by-design (QbD) approach that integrates biological responses with predictive mathematical modeling to identify key combinations of commercially available drugs to induce estrogen receptor expression for therapeutic targeting. This technology utilizes a high level of automation through a custom-built platform to reduce bias as well as design-of-experiments methodology to minimize the experimental iterations required. Utilizing this approach, we identified a combination of clinical compounds, each at concentrations well below their efficacious dose, able to induce the expression of estrogen receptor alpha (ESR1) in hormone-positive breast cancer cells. Induction of ESR1 in luminal cells leads to chemosensitization. These findings provide proof of concept for the utility of the QbD strategy and identify a unique drug cocktail able to sensitize breast cancer cells to tamoxifen.	It is well established that obesity increases the incidence and worsens the prognosis of women's cancer. For breast cancer, women with obesity exhibit more than a twofold increase in the odds of being diagnosed with cancer, with a greater risk of advanced stage at diagnosis, and ≤40% greater risk of recurrence and death than their normal-weight counterparts. These findings are similar in gynecologic cancers, where women who are obese with a body mass index (BMI) &gt;40 kg/m2 have up to six times greater risk of developing endometrial cancer and a 9.2% increase in mortality with every 10% increase in BMI. Likewise, patients with obesity exhibit a twofold higher risk of premenopausal ovarian cancer, and patients who are obese with advanced stage ovarian cancer have shown a shorter time to recurrence and poorer overall survival. Obesity is accompanied by changes in expression of adipose factors that act on local tissues and systemically. Once obesity was recognized as a factor in cancer incidence and progression, the adipose cytokine (adipokine) leptin became the focus of intense investigation as a putative link, with nearly 3000 publications on the topic. Leptin has been shown to increase cell proliferation, inhibit apoptosis, promote angiogenesis, and increase therapeutic resistance. These characteristics are associated with a subset of cells in both liquid and solid tumors known as cancer stem cells (CSCs), or tumor initiating cells. We will review the literature discussing leptin's role in breast and gynecologic cancer, focusing on its role in CSCs, and consider goals for targeting future therapy in this arena to disrupt tumor initiation and progression in women's cancer.	Effective targeting of cancer stem cells (CSCs) requires neutralization of self-renewal and chemoresistance, but these phenotypes are often regulated by distinct molecular mechanisms. Here we report the ability to target both of these phenotypes via CD55, an intrinsic cell surface complement inhibitor, which was identified in a comparative analysis between CSCs and non-CSCs in endometrioid cancer models. In this context, CD55 functions in a complement-independent manner and required lipid raft localization for CSC maintenance and cisplatin resistance. CD55 regulated self-renewal and core pluripotency genes via ROR2/JNK signaling and in parallel cisplatin resistance via lymphocyte-specific protein tyrosine kinase (LCK) signaling, which induced DNA repair genes. Targeting LCK signaling via saracatinib, an inhibitor currently undergoing clinical evaluation, sensitized chemoresistant cells to cisplatin. Collectively, our findings identify CD55 as a unique signaling node that drives self-renewal and therapeutic resistance through a bifurcating signaling axis and provides an opportunity to target both signaling pathways in endometrioid tumors.	Leptin (LEP) binds to the long form of the leptin receptor (LEPRb), leading to the activation of multiple signaling pathways that are potential targets for disrupting the obesity-breast cancer link. In triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), LEP is hypothesized to predominantly mediate its tumorigenic effects via a subpopulation of LEPRb-positive tumor cells termed cancer stem cells (CSCs) that can initiate tumors and induce tumor progression. Previously, we showed that LEP promotes CSC survival in vivo Moreover, silencing LEPRb in TNBC cells compromised the CSC state. The mechanisms by which LEPRb regulates TNBC CSC intracellular signaling are not clear. We hypothesized that activation of LEPRb signaling is sufficient to drive CSC maintenance in TNBC. Here, we show that activation of LEPRb in non-CSCs isolated using our CSC reporter system resulted in a transition to the stem cell state. In CSCs, LEP induced STAT3 phosphorylation, whereas LEP did not induce STAT3 phosphorylation in non-CSCs. Introduction of constitutively active STAT3 into LEPRb-transfected non-CSCs significantly induced NANOG, SOX2 and OCT4 expression compared with control non-CSCs. To determine the intracellular phospho-tyrosine residue of LEPRb that is necessary for the induction of the stem cell state in non-CSCs, we transfected the tyrosine residue point mutants L985, F1077 and S1138 into non-CSCs. Non-CSCs transfected with the L985 mutant exhibited increased STAT3 phosphorylation, increased SOCS3 expression and an induction of GFP expression compared with non-CSCs expressing the F1077 and S1138 mutants. Our data demonstrate that LEPRb-induced STAT3 activation is essential for the induction and maintenance of TNBC CSCs.	Cancer stem cells have been identified in primary tumors, patient derived xenografts, and established cancer cell lines. The development of reporters has enabled investigators to rapidly enrich for these cells and more importantly track these cells in real time. Here we describe the current state of the reporter field and their use and limitations in multiple cancers.	The mainstay of treatment for ovarian cancer is platinum-based cytotoxic chemotherapy. However, therapeutic resistance and recurrence is a common eventuality for nearly all ovarian cancer patients, resulting in poor median survival. Recurrence is postulated to be driven by a population of self-renewing, therapeutically resistant cancer stem cells (CSCs). A current limitation in CSC studies is the inability to interrogate their dynamic changes in real time. Here we utilized a GFP reporter driven by the NANOG-promoter to enrich and track ovarian CSCs. Using this approach, we identified a population of cells with CSC properties including enhanced expression of stem cell transcription factors, self-renewal, and tumor initiation. We also observed elevations in CSC properties in cisplatin-resistant ovarian cancer cells as compared to cisplatin-naïve ovarian cancer cells. CD49f, a marker for CSCs in other solid tumors, enriched CSCs in cisplatin-resistant and -naïve cells. NANOG-GFP enriched CSCs (GFP+ cells) were more resistant to cisplatin as compared to GFP-negative cells. Moreover, upon cisplatin treatment, the GFP signal intensity and NANOG expression increased in GFP-negative cells, indicating that cisplatin was able to induce the CSC state. Taken together, we describe a reporter-based strategy that allows for determination of the CSC state in real time and can be used to detect the induction of the CSC state upon cisplatin treatment. As cisplatin may provide an inductive stress for the stem cell state, future efforts should focus on combining cytotoxic chemotherapy with a CSC targeted therapy for greater clinical utility. 	Advanced cancers display cellular heterogeneity driven by self-renewing, tumorigenic cancer stem cells (CSCs). The use of cell lines to model CSCs is challenging due to the difficulty of identifying and isolating cell populations that possess differences in self-renewal and tumor initiation. To overcome these barriers in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), we developed a CSC system using a green fluorescent protein (GFP) reporter for the promoter of the well-established pluripotency gene NANOG. NANOG-GFP+ cells gave rise to both GFP+ and GFP(-) cells, and GFP+ cells possessed increased levels of the embryonic stem cell transcription factors NANOG, SOX2, and OCT4 and elevated self-renewal and tumor initiation capacities. GFP+ cells also expressed mesenchymal markers and demonstrated increased invasion. Compared with the well-established CSC markers CD24(-) /CD44(+) , CD49f, and aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) activity, our NANOG-GFP reporter system demonstrated increased enrichment for CSCs. To explore the utility of this system as a screening platform, we performed a flow cytometry screen that confirmed increased CSC marker expression in the GFP+ population and identified new cell surface markers elevated in TNBC CSCs, including junctional adhesion molecule-A (JAM-A). JAM-A was highly expressed in GFP+ cells and patient-derived xenograft ALDH+ CSCs compared with the GFP(-) and ALDH(-) cells, respectively. Depletion of JAM-A compromised self-renewal, whereas JAM-A overexpression induced self-renewal in GFP(-) cells. Our data indicate that we have defined and developed a robust system to monitor differences between CSCs and non-CSCs in TNBC that can be used to identify CSC-specific targets for the development of future therapeutic strategies.	Despite new therapies, breast cancer continues to be the second leading cause of cancer mortality in women, a consequence of recurrence and metastasis. In recent years, a population of cancer cells has been identified, called cancer stem cells (CSCs) with self-renewal capacity, proposed to underlie tumor recurrence and metastasis. We previously showed that the adipose tissue cytokine LEPTIN, increased in obesity, promotes the survival of CSCs in vivo. Here, we tested the hypothesis that the leptin receptor (LEPR), expressed in mammary cancer cells, is necessary for maintaining CSC-like and metastatic properties. We silenced LEPR via shRNA lentivirus transduction and determined that the expression of stem cell self-renewal transcription factors NANOG, SOX2, and OCT4 (POU5F1) is inhibited. LEPR-NANOG signaling pathway is conserved between species because we can rescue NANOG expression in human LEPR-silenced cells with the mouse LepR. Using a NANOG promoter GFP reporter, we showed that LEPR is enriched in NANOG promoter active (GFP+) cells. In lineage tracing studies, we showed that the GFP+ cells divide in a symmetric and asymmetric manner. LEPR-silenced MDA-MB-231 cells exhibit a mesenchymal to epithelial transition morphologically, increased E-CADHERIN and decreased VIMENTIN expression compared with control cells. Finally, LEPR-silenced cells exhibit reduced cell proliferation, self-renewal in tumor sphere assays, and tumor outgrowth in xenotransplant studies. Given the emergence of NANOG as a pro-carcinogenic protein in multiple cancers, these studies suggest that inhibition of LEPR may be a promising therapeutic approach to inhibit NANOG and thereby neutralize CSC functions.	Obesity increases both the risk and mortality associated with many types of cancer including that of the breast. In mice, obesity increases both incidence of spontaneous tumors and burden of transplanted tumors. Our findings identify leptin, an adipose secreted cytokine, in promoting increased mammary tumor burden in obese mice and provide a link between this adipokine and cancer. Using a transplantable tumor that develops spontaneously in the murine mammary tumor virus-Wnt-1 transgenic mice, we show that tumors transplanted into obese leptin receptor (LepRb)-deficient (db/db) mice grow to eight times the volume of tumors transplanted into lean wild-type (WT) mice. However, tumor outgrowth and overall tumor burden is reduced in obese, leptin-deficient (ob/ob) mice. The residual tumors in ob/ob mice contain fewer undifferentiated tumor cells (keratin 6 immunopositive) compared with WT or db/db mice. Furthermore, tumors in ob/ob mice contain fewer cells expressing phosphorylated Akt, a growth promoting kinase activated by the LepRb, compared with WT and db/db mice. In vivo limiting dilution analysis of residual tumors from ob/ob mice indicated reduced tumor initiating activity suggesting fewer cancer stem cells (CSCs). The tumor cell populations reduced by leptin deficiency were identified by fluorescence-activated cell sorting and found to express LepRb. Finally, LepRb expressing tumor cells exhibit stem cell characteristics based on the ability to form tumorspheres in vitro and leptin promotes their survival. These studies provide critical new insight on the role of leptin in tumor growth and implicate LepRb as a CSC target.	Obesity is associated with increased risk of diabetes, cardiovascular disease and several types of cancers. The hypothalamus is a region of the brain critical in the regulation of body weight. One of the critical and best studied hypothalamic circuits is comprised of the melanocortinergic orexigenic agouti-related protein (AgRP) and anorexigenic α-melanocyte stimulating hormone (α-MSH) neurons. These neurons project axons to the same hypothalamic target neurons and balance each other's activity leading to body weight regulation. We previously showed that the brain proteoglycan syndecan-3 regulates feeding behavior and body weight, and syndecan-3 null (SDC-3(-/-)) mice are lean and obesity resistant. Here we show that the melanocortin agonist Melanotan II (MTII) potently suppresses food intake and activates the hypothalamic paraventricular nuclei (PVN) in SDC-3(-/-) mice based on c-fos immunoreactivity. Interestingly, we determined that the AgRP neuropeptide is reduced in the PVN of SDC-3(-/-) mice compared to wild type mice. In contrast, neuropeptide Y, coexpressed in the AgRP neuron, is not differentially expressed nor is the counteracting neuropeptide α-MSH. These findings are unprecedented and indicate that AgRP protein localization can be selectively regulated within the hypothalamus resulting in altered neuropeptide response and tone.
Rezaee, Fariba	Inflammation and Immunity	30489157	28759570	28500974	20971883	29329282	20300619	25085341	24467704	23926335	21996340	Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is a major cause of hospitalization for infants and young children worldwide. RSV is known to infect epithelial cells and increase the permeability of model airway epithelial monolayers in vitro. We hypothesized that RSV infection also induces airway barrier dysfunction in vivo. C57BL/6 mice were intranasally inoculated with RSV, and on day 4 post-inoculation were examined for viral replication, lung inflammation, and barrier integrity as well as the structure and molecular composition of epithelial junctions. In parallel, primary mouse tracheal epithelial cells (mTEC) were cultured for in vitro studies. RSV-infected mice lost weight and showed significant peribronchial inflammation compared with noninfected controls and UV-inactivated RSV-inoculated animals. RSV infection increased the permeability of the airway epithelial barrier and altered the molecular composition of epithelial tight junctions. The observed RSV-induced barrier disruption was accompanied by decreased expression of several tight-junction proteins and accumulation of cleaved extracellular fragments of E-cadherin in bronchoalveolar lavage and mTEC supernatants. Similarly, in vitro RSV infection of mTEC monolayers resulted in enhanced permeability and disruption of tight-junction structure. Furthermore, incubation of mTEC monolayers with a recombinant fragment of E-cadherin caused tight-junction disassembly. Taken together, these data indicate that RSV infection leads to airway barrier dysfunction in vivo, mediated by either decreased expression or cleavage of junctional proteins. Our observations provide further insights into the pathophysiology of RSV infection and provide a rationale for development of barrier-protecting agents to alleviate the pathogenic effects of RSV infection.	Airway epithelium forms a barrier to the outside world and has a crucial role in susceptibility to viral infections. Cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) is an important second messenger acting via two intracellular signaling molecules: protein kinase A (PKA) and the guanidine nucleotide exchange factor, Epac. We sought to investigate effects of increased cAMP level on the disruption of model airway epithelial barrier caused by RSV infection and the molecular mechanisms underlying cAMP actions. Human bronchial epithelial cells were infected with RSV-A2 and treated with either cAMP releasing agent, forskolin, or cAMP analogs. Structure and functions of the Apical Junctional Complex (AJC) were evaluated by measuring transepithelial electrical resistance and permeability to FITC-dextran, and determining localization of AJC proteins by confocal microscopy. Increased intracellular cAMP level significantly attenuated RSV-induced disassembly of AJC. These barrier-protective effects of cAMP were due to the activation of PKA signaling and did not involve Epac activity. Increased cAMP level reduced RSV-induced reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton, including apical accumulation of an essential actin-binding protein, cortactin, and inhibited expression of the RSV F protein. These barrier-protective and antiviral-function of cAMP signaling were evident even when cAMP level was increased after the onset of RSV infection. Taken together, our study demonstrates that cAMP/PKA signaling attenuated RSV-induced disruption of structure and functions of the model airway epithelial barrier by mechanisms involving the stabilization of epithelial junctions and inhibition of viral biogenesis. Improving our understanding of the mechanisms involved in RSV-induced epithelial dysfunction and viral pathogenesis will help to develop novel anti-viral therapeutic approaches.	Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is the most common respiratory pathogen in infants and young children worldwide. Lower respiratory tract infection due to RSV is one of the most common causes of hospitalization for infants, especially those born premature or with chronic lung or heart disease. Furthermore, RSV infection is an important cause of morbidity in adults, particularly in the elderly and immunocompromised individuals. The acute phase of this infection is often followed by episodes of wheezing that recur for months or years and usually lead to a physician diagnosis of asthma. RSV was discovered more than 50 years ago, and despite extensive research to identify pharmacological therapies, the most effective management of this infection remains supportive care. The trial of a formalin-inactivated RSV vaccine in the 1960s resulted in priming the severe illness upon natural infection. Currently, Palivizumab is the only available option for RSV prophylaxis, and because of restricted clinical benefits and high costs, it has been limited to a group of high-risk infants. There are several ongoing trials in preclinical, Phase-I, Phase-II, or Phase-III clinical stages for RSV vaccine development based on various strategies. Here we review the existing available prophylactic options, the current stages of RSV vaccine clinical trials, different strategies, and major hurdles in the development of an effective RSV vaccine.	Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is the most common respiratory pathogen in infants and young children. The pathophysiology of this infection in the respiratory system has been studied extensively, but little is known about its consequences in other systems. We studied whether RSV infects human bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) in vitro and in vivo, and investigated whether and how this infection affects BMSC structure and hematopoietic support function. Primary human BMSCs were infected in vitro with recombinant RSV expressing green fluorescent protein. In addition, RNA from naive BMSCs was amplified by PCR, and the products were sequenced to confirm homology with the RSV genome. The BMSC cytoskeleton was visualized by immunostaining for actin. Finally, we analyzed infected BMSCs for the expression of multiple cytokines and chemokines, evaluated their hematopoietic support capacity, and measured their chemotactic activity for both lymphoid and myeloid cells. We found that BMSCs support RSV replication in vitro with efficiency that varies among cell lines derived from different donors; furthermore, RNA sequences homologous to the RSV genome were found in naive primary human BMSCs. RSV infection disrupted cytoskeletal actin microfilaments, altered cytokine/chemokine expression patterns, decreased the ability of BMSCs to support B cell maturation, and modulated local chemotaxis. Our data indicate that RSV infects human BMSCs in vitro, and this infection has important structural and functional consequences that might affect hematopoietic and immune functions. Furthermore, we have amplified viral RNA from naive primary BMSCs, suggesting that in vivo these cells provide RSV with an extrapulmonary target.	BackgroundDespite decades that have passed since its discovery, accurate biomarkers of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) disease activity and effective therapeutic strategies are still lacking. The high-mobility group box type 1 (HMGB1) protein has been proposed as a possible link between RSV and immune system, but only limited information is currently available to support this hypothesis.MethodsExpression of HMGB1 gene and protein was analyzed by quantitative PCR, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), western blot, immunocytochemistry, and confocal microscopy in immortalized and primary human bronchial epithelial cells, as well as in rat pup lungs. The role of HMGB1 in RSV infection was explored using glycyrrhizin, a selective HMGB1 inhibitor.ResultsRSV infection strongly induced HMGB1 expression both in vitro and in vivo. Glycyrrhizin dose-dependently inhibited HMGB1 upregulation in both RSV-infected immortalized and primary human bronchial epithelial cells, and this effect was associated with significant reduction of viral replication.ConclusionOur data suggest that HMGB1 expression increases during RSV replication. This seems to have a critical pathogenic role as its selective inhibition virtually modified the infection. These observations provide further insight into the pathophysiology of RSV infection and uncover a potential biomarker and therapeutic target for the most common respiratory infection of infancy.	The host's response to infection is characterized by altered levels of neurotrophins and an influx of inflammatory cells to sites of injured tissue. Progenitor cells that give rise to the differentiated cellular mediators of inflammation are derived from bone marrow progenitor cells where their development is regulated, in part, by cues from bone marrow stromal cells (BMSC). As such, alteration of BMSC function in response to elevated systemic mediators has the potential to alter their function in biologically relevant ways, including downstream alteration of cytokine production that influences hematopoietic development. In the current study we investigated BMSC neurotrophin receptor expression by flow cytometric analysis to determine differences in expression as well as potential to respond to NGF or BDNF. Intracellular signaling subsequent to neurotrophin stimulation of BMSC was analyzed by western blot, microarray analysis, confocal microscopy and real-time PCR. Analysis of BMSC Interleukin-6 (IL-6) expression was completed using ELISA and real-time PCR. BMSC established from different individuals had distinct expression profiles of the neurotrophin receptors, TrkA, TrkB, TrkC, and p75(NTR). These receptors were functional, demonstrated by an increase in Akt-phosphorylation following BMSC exposure to recombinant NGF or BDNF. Neurotrophin stimulation of BMSC resulted in increased IL-6 gene and protein expression which required activation of ERK and p38 MAPK signaling, but was not mediated by the NFkappaB pathway. BMSC response to neurotrophins, including the up-regulation of IL-6, may alter their support of hematopoiesis and regulate the availability of inflammatory cells for migration to sites of injury or infection. As such, these studies are relevant to the growing appreciation of the interplay between neurotropic mediators and the regulation of hematopoiesis.	Airway epithelial cells form a barrier to the outside world and are at the front line of mucosal immunity. Epithelial apical junctional complexes are multiprotein subunits that promote cell-cell adhesion and barrier integrity. Recent studies in the skin and gastrointestinal tract suggest that disruption of cell-cell junctions is required to initiate epithelial immune responses, but how this applies to mucosal immunity in the lung is not clear. Increasing evidence indicates that defective epithelial barrier function is a feature of airway inflammation in asthmatic patients. One challenge in this area is that barrier function and junctional integrity are difficult to study in the intact lung, but innovative approaches should provide new knowledge in this area in the near future. In this article we review the structure and function of epithelial apical junctional complexes, emphasizing how regulation of the epithelial barrier affects innate and adaptive immunity. We discuss why defective epithelial barrier function might be linked to TH2 polarization in asthmatic patients and propose a rheostat model of barrier dysfunction that implicates the size of inhaled allergen particles as an important factor influencing adaptive immunity.	Epithelial permeability is a hallmark of mucosal inflammation, but the molecular mechanisms involved remain poorly understood. A key component of the epithelial barrier is the apical junctional complex that forms between neighboring cells. Apical junctional complexes are made of tight junctions and adherens junctions and link to the cellular cytoskeleton via numerous adaptor proteins. Although the existence of tight and adherens junctions between epithelial cells has long been recognized, in recent years there have been significant advances in our understanding of the molecular regulation of junctional complex assembly and disassembly. Here we review the current thinking about the structure and function of the apical junctional complex in airway epithelial cells, emphasizing the translational aspects of relevance to cystic fibrosis and asthma. Most work to date has been conducted using cell culture models, but technical advancements in imaging techniques suggest that we are on the verge of important new breakthroughs in this area in physiological models of airway diseases.	Understanding the regulation of airway epithelial barrier function is a new frontier in asthma and respiratory viral infections. Despite recent progress, little is known about how respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) acts at mucosal sites, and very little is known about its ability to influence airway epithelial barrier function. Here, we studied the effect of RSV infection on the airway epithelial barrier using model epithelia. 16HBE14o- bronchial epithelial cells were grown on Transwell inserts and infected with RSV strain A2. We analyzed (i) epithelial apical junction complex (AJC) function, measuring transepithelial electrical resistance (TEER) and permeability to fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)-conjugated dextran, and (ii) AJC structure using immunofluorescent staining. Cells were pretreated or not with protein kinase D (PKD) inhibitors. UV-irradiated RSV served as a negative control. RSV infection led to a significant reduction in TEER and increase in permeability. Additionally it caused disruption of the AJC and remodeling of the apical actin cytoskeleton. Pretreatment with two structurally unrelated PKD inhibitors markedly attenuated RSV-induced effects. RSV induced phosphorylation of the actin binding protein cortactin in a PKD-dependent manner. UV-inactivated RSV had no effect on AJC function or structure. Our results suggest that RSV-induced airway epithelial barrier disruption involves PKD-dependent actin cytoskeletal remodeling, possibly dependent on cortactin activation. Defining the mechanisms by which RSV disrupts epithelial structure and function should enhance our understanding of the association between respiratory viral infections, airway inflammation, and allergen sensitization. Impaired barrier function may open a potential new therapeutic target for RSV-mediated lung diseases. 	Disruption of the epithelial barrier might be a risk factor for allergen sensitization and asthma. Viral respiratory tract infections are strongly associated with asthma exacerbation, but the effects of respiratory viruses on airway epithelial barrier function are not well understood. Many viruses generate double-stranded RNA, which can lead to airway inflammation and initiate an antiviral immune response. We investigated the effects of the synthetic double-stranded RNA polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid (polyI:C) on the structure and function of the airway epithelial barrier in vitro. 16HBE14o- human bronchial epithelial cells and primary airway epithelial cells at an air-liquid interface were grown to confluence on Transwell inserts and exposed to polyI:C. We studied epithelial barrier function by measuring transepithelial electrical resistance and paracellular flux of fluorescent markers and structure of epithelial apical junctions by means of immunofluorescence microscopy. PolyI:C induced a profound decrease in transepithelial electrical resistance and increase in paracellular permeability. Immunofluorescence microscopy revealed markedly reduced junctional localization of zonula occludens-1, occludin, E-cadherin, β-catenin, and disorganization of junction-associated actin filaments. PolyI:C induced protein kinase D (PKD) phosphorylation, and a PKD antagonist attenuated polyI:C-induced disassembly of apical junctions and barrier dysfunction. PolyI:C has a powerful and previously unsuspected disruptive effect on the airway epithelial barrier. PolyI:C-dependent barrier disruption is mediated by disassembly of epithelial apical junctions, which is dependent on PKD signaling. These findings suggest a new mechanism potentially underlying the associations between viral respiratory tract infections, airway inflammation, and allergen sensitization.
Rieder, Florian	Inflammation and Immunity	30981697	30503966	30411391	30346528	29920726	29411405	28881875	28402994	28002130	27831543	Crohn's disease (CD) is a chronic inflammatory disease, which could affect any part of the gastrointestinal tract. A severe complication of CD is fibrosis-associated strictures, which can cause bowel obstruction. Unfortunately, there is no specific antifibrotic therapy available. More than 80% of the patients with CD will have to undergo at least 1 surgery in their life and recurrence of strictures after surgery is common. Investigations on the mechanism of fibrostenosing CD have revealed that fibrosis is mainly driven by expansion of mesenchymal cells including fibroblasts, myofibroblasts, and smooth muscle cells. Being exposed to a pro-fibrotic milieu, these cells increase the secretion of extracellular matrix, as well as crosslinking enzymes, which drive tissue stiffness and remodeling. Fibrogenesis can become independent of inflammation in later stages of disease, which offers unique therapeutic potential. Exciting new evidence suggests smooth muscle cell hyperplasia as a strong contributor to luminal narrowing in fibrostenotic CD. Approval of new drugs in other fibrotic diseases, such as idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, as well as new targets associated with fibrosis found in CD, such as cadherins or specific integrins, shed light on the development of novel antifibrotic approaches in CD.	Little is known about the effects of endoscopic balloon dilation (EBD) for strictures of the upper gastrointestinal (UGI) tract in patients with Crohn's disease (CD). We performed a pooled analysis of the efficacy and safety of EBD for UGI CD-associated strictures. We searched Embase, Medline, and the Cochrane library, as well as bibliographies of relevant articles, for cohort studies of adults with CD and strictures of the stomach or duodenum (up to the ligament of Treitz) who underwent EBD through December 2016. We obtained data from 7 international referral centers on 94 patients who underwent 141 EBDs. We performed a patient-level meta-analysis of data from published and unpublished cohort studies to determine mechanical and clinical success. We performed a time-to-event analysis to assess symptom recurrence and need for redilation or surgery. The patients analyzed had strictures of the duodenum (n = 107), stomach (n = 30), or spanning both (n = 4). The rate of technical success for EBD was 100%, with 87% short-term clinical efficacy; major complications arose from 2.9% of all procedures. During a median follow-up period of 23.1 months, 70.5% of patients had a recurrence of symptoms, 59.6% required redilation, and 30.8% required surgical intervention. Patients whose disease was located in the small bowel had a higher risk for symptom recurrence (hazard ratio [HR], 2.1; P = .003). Asian race (HR, 2.8; P &lt; .001) and location of disease in the small bowel (HR, 1.9; P = .004) increased the need for redilation. Prestenotic dilation was a risk factor for needing surgery earlier (HR, 1.9; P = .001). In a meta-analysis, we found EBD for CD-associated strictures of the UGI to be an effective alternative to surgery, with a high rate of short-term technical and clinical success, moderate long-term efficacy, and an acceptable rate of complications.	Zymogen granule glycoprotein 2 (GP2) is a major autoantigen of Crohn's disease-specific pancreatic autoantibodies. To test a link between loss of tolerance to isoforms of GP2 and pouch disorders in a cross-sectional study in ulcerative colitis patients with ileal pouch-anal anastomosis (IPAA). Serum samples of 117 consecutive ulcerative colitis patients after IPAA were tested for presence of Anti-GP2 isoforms 1 (GP21 ) &amp; 4 (GP24 ) IgG and IgA as well as anti-Saccaromyces cervisiae (ASCA) IgG and IgA antibodies in a blinded fashion via enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Pouch disorders were diagnosed based on clinical, endoscopic, histological and radiographic criteria. Crohn's disease of the pouch was defined as involvement of the small bowel mucosa proximal to the ileal pouch with Crohn's disease, development of perianal complications or pouch fistula more than 3 months after ileostomy closure. Positivity and level of Anti-GP21 IgG (AUC 0.77; P &lt; 0.001 &amp; P = 0.02, respectively), Anti-GP24 IgG (AUC 0.74; P &lt; 0.001 &amp; P = 0.025, respectively) and Anti-GP24 IgA (AUC 0.77; P &lt; 0.001 to P = 0.018, respectively) were specifically associated with Crohn's disease of the pouch. Anti-GP2 was not associated with endoscopic or histological pouch disease activity index. Neither positivity nor levels of ASCA IgG (AUC 0.63; P = 0.12 &amp; P = 0.35, respectively) or ASCA IgA (AUC 0.67; P = 0.38 &amp; P = 0.53) were associated with pouch phenotypes. The novel anti-GP21 and GP24 antibodies are associated with Crohn's disease of the pouch in ulcerative colitis patients after IPAA. Serological anti-GP2 antibodies could aid in diagnosis of Crohn's disease of the pouch.	Adipose tissue is present in close proximity to various organs in the human body. One prominent example is fat contained in the mesentery that is contiguous with all abdominal digestive organs including the intestine. Despite the fact that mesenteric fat-wrapping around the inflamed gut (so called &quot;creeping fat&quot;) was described as a characteristic feature of Crohn's disease (CD) in the early 1930s, the functional implications of creeping fat have received only recent attention. As a potent producer of fatty acids, cytokines, growth factors, and adipokines, creeping fat plays an important role in regulation of immunity and inflammation. Increasing evidence points to a link between creeping fat and intestinal inflammation in CD, where histopathologic evaluation shows a significant association between creeping fat and connective tissue changes in the bowel wall, such as muscular hypertrophy, fibrosis, and stricture formation. In addition, emerging mechanistic data indicate a link between creeping fat, muscularis propria hyperplasia, and stricturing disease. Information on fat-mesenchymal interactions in other organs could provide clues to fill the fundamental knowledge gap on the role of distinct components of creeping fat in intestinal fibrosis and stricture formation. Future studies will provide important new information that in turn could lead to novel therapeutic agents aimed at prevention or treatment of CD-associated fibrosis and stricture formation.	Fibrotic stricture is a common complication of Crohn's disease (CD) affecting approximately half of all patients. No specific anti-fibrotic therapies are available; however, several therapies are currently under evaluation. Drug development for the indication of stricturing CD is hampered by a lack of standardised definitions, diagnostic modalities, clinical trial eligibility criteria, endpoints and treatment targets in stricturing CD. To standardise definitions, diagnosis and treatment targets for anti-fibrotic stricture therapies in Chron's disease. An interdisciplinary expert panel consisting of 15 gastroenterologists and radiologists was assembled. Using modified RAND/University of California Los Angeles appropriateness methodology, 109 candidate items derived from systematic review and expert opinion focusing on small intestinal strictures were anonymously rated as inappropriate, uncertain or appropriate. Survey results were discussed as a group before a second and third round of voting. Fibrotic strictures are defined by the combination of luminal narrowing, wall thickening and pre-stenotic dilation. Definitions of anastomotic (at site of prior intestinal resection with anastomosis) and naïve small bowel strictures were similar; however, there was uncertainty regarding wall thickness in anastomotic strictures. Magnetic resonance imaging is considered the optimal technique to define fibrotic strictures and assess response to therapy. Symptomatic strictures are defined by abdominal distension, cramping, dietary restrictions, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and post-prandial abdominal pain. Need for intervention (endoscopic balloon dilation or surgery) within 24-48 weeks is considered the appropriate endpoint in pharmacological trials. Consensus criteria for diagnosis and response to therapy in stricturing Crohn's disease should inform both clinical practice and trial design.	Fibrosis in ulcerative colitis has remained largely unexplored despite its clinical implications. This cross-sectional study was aimed at characterising the presence, anatomical location and degree of ulcerative colitis-associated fibrosis and its possible link to clinical parameters. Seven hundred and six individual tissue cross-sections derived every 10 cm along the length of 89 consecutive Ulcerative colitis colectomy specimens were examined and compared to Crohn's disease colitis, diverticular disease and uninvolved areas from colorectal cancer patients. Degree of inflammation, fibrosis and morphometric measurements of all layers of the intestinal wall were evaluated. Three gastrointestinal pathologists independently assessed colon sections stained with haematoxylin and eosin, Masson trichrome and Sirius red. Clinical data were collected prospectively. Submucosal fibrosis was detected in 100% of ulcerative colitis colectomy specimens, but only in areas affected by inflammation. Submucosal fibrosis was associated with the severity of intestinal inflammation (Spearman correlations rho (95% confidence interval): 0.58 (P &lt; 0.001) and histopathological changes of chronic mucosal injury, but not active inflammation. Colectomy for refractory disease rather than presence of dysplasia was associated with increased fibrosis and a thicker muscularis mucosae, whereas a thinner muscularis mucosae was associated with anti-tumour necrosis factor therapy. No feature on endoscopic mucosal biopsies could predict the underlying amount of fibrosis or the thickness of the muscularis mucosae. A significant degree of fibrosis and muscularis mucosae thickening should be considered as common complications of chronic progressive ulcerative colitis. These features may have clinical consequences such as motility abnormalities and increased wall stiffness.	Gastric and duodenal Crohn's disease [CD]-associated strictures are rare. Evidence on endoscopic balloon dilation [EBD] of upper gastrointestinal [GI] CD strictures is limited, in particular in respect to serial dilations. Prospective short- and long-term outcome data as well as complication rates on a cohort of upper GI CD-associated stricture dilations [stomach and duodenum] were collected from 1999 to 2015. Factors linked with clinical and technical success, long-term efficacy and complication rates were investigated. A total of 35 CD patients with symptomatic CD-associated upper GI strictures [20% gastric, 67% duodenal, 11% both; mean age at diagnosis 25 years; mean CD duration to stricture 79.9 months; median post-dilation follow-up 22.1 months] underwent a total of 96 pneumatic dilations [33 gastric and 63 duodenal]. The median maximal dilation diameter was 15 mm. Technical success was achieved in 93% and clinical success in 87%, with a complication rate of 4% per procedure. The mean time to re-dilation was 2.2 months and mean time to stricture-related surgery after first dilation was 2.8 months. There was no difference in short-term efficacy, safety, or long-term outcome between the first and any later dilation procedure in the same patient. Pneumatic dilation of upper GI CD-associated strictures has a high rate of short-term technical and clinical success, with moderate long-term efficacy and acceptable complication rates. Serial dilations do not change the efficacy and could be a feasible option to delay or prevent surgical intervention.	Intestinal fibrosis is a common complication of several enteropathies, with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) being the major cause. Intestinal fibrosis affects both ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease, and no specific antifibrotic therapy exists. This review highlights recent developments in this area. The pathophysiology of intestinal stricture formation includes inflammation-dependent and inflammation-independent mechanisms. A better understanding of the mechanisms of intestinal fibrogenesis and the availability of compounds for other nonintestinal fibrotic diseases bring clincial trials in stricturing Crohn's disease within reach. Improved understanding of its mechanisms and ongoing development of clinical trial endpoints for intestinal fibrosis will allow the testing of novel antifibrotic compounds in IBD.	Endoscopic balloon dilation (EBD) is widely used to manage Crohn's disease-associated strictures. However, most studies of the safety and efficacy are small and heterogenous. We performed a combined analysis of published studies and evaluated 676 comprehensive individual participant data sets to determine the overall effects of EBD. Citations from the Embase, MEDLINE, and the Cochrane library from 1991 through 2013 were systematically reviewed, and references of cited articles were assessed for relevant publications. We collected data from studies including ≥15 patients and additionally generated a unique individual patient database containing 676 individual data sets derived from 12 studies. Technical feasibility, short-term and long-term efficacies, and safety were evaluated. In 1463 patients with Crohn's disease who underwent 3213 EBD procedures, 98.6% of strictures were ileal and 62% anastomotic. The technical success rate of the EBDs was 89.1% with a clinical efficacy of 80.8%. Complications occurred in 2.8% per procedure. After 24 months of follow-up, 73.5% of subjects underwent redilation and 42.9% surgical resection. In a multivariate analysis of 676 individual patients, a stricture length of ≤5 cm was associated with a surgery-free outcome; every 1 cm increase of stricture length increased the hazard of need for surgery by 8% (P = 0.008). Inflammation did not affect outcomes or rate of complications. Based on a systematic literature review and analysis of data sets from 676 patients, EBD has a high rate of short-term technical and clinical efficacies, with substantial long-term efficacy and acceptable rates of complication.	The accuracy of available noninvasive biomarkers for diagnosis, stratification, and prediction of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) courses is limited. We analyzed volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in the breath of IBD patients and controls for diagnosis and differentiation of IBD as well as their link with disease location, activity, and phenotype. A prospective study of diagnostic testing was conducted, recruiting Crohn's disease (CD), ulcerative colitis (UC), other inflammatory gastrointestinal diseases (OGDs), and healthy controls (HCs), as well as subjects with ileal pouch anal anastomosis (IPAA). The breath VOC profile was analyzed using selective ion flow tube-mass spectrometry. One hundred and twenty-four subjects (n=24 CD, n=11 UC, n=6 OGD, n=53 HC, n=30 IPAA) were included. The breath metabolome was significantly different in patients with IBD, CD, or UC compared with OGD and HC (7 out of 22 VOCs), but not between CD and UC. No link between the level of VOCs with complications, disease location, and clinical or radiologic disease activity, as well as lab parameters or type of medication was found. Breath VOCs were markedly different in patients with IPAA compared with any other group (17 out of 22 VOCs) and the presence of pouch inflammation did not alter the VOC levels. A specific breath metabolome is associated with IBD and markedly changes in patients with IPAA. Analysis of a broader spectrum of VOCs can potentially aid in the development of breath prints to diagnose or differentiate inflammatory bowel disorders.
Rotroff, Daniel	Quantitative Health Sciences	29650774	28736931	27887572	27689071	27648916	27378919	26783503	24960280	24279843	23682706	Metformin is the first-line treatment for type 2 diabetes (T2D). Although widely prescribed, the glucose-lowering mechanism for metformin is incompletely understood. Here, we used a genome-wide association approach in a diverse group of individuals with T2D from the Action to Control Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes (ACCORD) clinical trial to identify common and rare variants associated with HbA1c response to metformin treatment and followed up these findings in four replication cohorts. Common variants in PRPF31 and CPA6 were associated with worse and better metformin response, respectively (P &lt; 5 × 10<sup>-6</sup>), and meta-analysis in independent cohorts displayed similar associations with metformin response (P = 1.2 × 10<sup>-8</sup> and P = 0.005, respectively). Previous studies have shown that PRPF31(+/-) knockout mice have increased total body fat (P = 1.78 × 10<sup>-6</sup>) and increased fasted circulating glucose (P = 5.73 × 10<sup>-6</sup>). Furthermore, rare variants in STAT3 associated with worse metformin response (q &lt;0.1). STAT3 is a ubiquitously expressed pleiotropic transcriptional activator that participates in the regulation of metabolism and feeding behavior. Here, we provide novel evidence for associations of common and rare variants in PRPF31, CPA6, and STAT3 with metformin response that may provide insight into mechanisms important for metformin efficacy in T2D.	Individuals with type 2 diabetes (T2D) and dyslipidemia are at an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. Fibrates are a class of drugs prescribed to treat dyslipidemia, but variation in response has been observed. To evaluate common and rare genetic variants that impact lipid responses to fenofibrate in statin-treated patients with T2D, we examined lipid changes in response to fenofibrate therapy using a genomewide association study (GWAS). Associations were followed-up using gene expression studies in mice. Common variants in SMAD3 and IPO11 were marginally associated with lipid changes in black subjects (P &lt; 5 × 10<sup>-6</sup> ). Rare variant and gene expression changes were assessed using a false discovery rate approach. AKR7A3 and HSD17B13 were associated with lipid changes in white subjects (q &lt; 0.2). Mice fed fenofibrate displayed reductions in Hsd17b13 gene expression (q &lt; 0.1). Associations of variants in SMAD3, IPO11, and HSD17B13, with gene expression changes in mice indicate that transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β) and NRF2 signaling pathways may influence fenofibrate effects on dyslipidemia in patients with T2D.	Children exposed to maternal smoking during pregnancy exhibit increased risk for many adverse health effects. Maternal smoking influences methylation in newborns at specific CpG sites (CpGs). Here, we extend evaluation of individual CpGs to gene-level and pathway-level analyses among 1062 participants in the Norwegian Mother and Child Cohort Study (MoBa) using the Illumina 450 K platform to measure methylation in newborn DNA and maternal smoking in pregnancy, assessed using the biomarker, plasma cotinine. We used novel implementations of bioinformatics tools to collapse epigenome-wide methylation data into gene- and pathway-level effects to test whether exposure to maternal smoking in utero differentially methylated CpGs in genes enriched in biologic pathways. Unlike most pathway analysis applications, our approach allows replication in an independent cohort. Data on 485,577 CpGs, mapping to a total of 20,199 genes, were used to create gene scores that were tested for association with maternal plasma cotinine levels using Sequence Kernel Association Test (SKAT), and 15 genes were found to be associated (q &lt; 0.25). Six of these 15 genes (GFI1, MYO1G, CYP1A1, RUNX1, LCTL, and AHRR) contained individual CpGs that were differentially methylated with regards to cotinine levels (p &lt; 1.06 × 10<sup>-7</sup>). Nine of the 15 genes (FCRLA, MIR641, SLC25A24, TRAK1, C1orf180, ITLN2, GLIS1, LRFN1, and MIR451) were associated with cotinine at the gene-level (q &lt; 0.25) but had no genome-wide significant individual CpGs (p &gt; 1.06 × 10<sup>-7</sup>). Pathway analyses using gene scores resulted in 51 significantly associated pathways, which we tested for replication in an independent cohort (q &lt; 0.05). Of those 32 replicated in an independent cohort, which clustered into six groups. The largest cluster consisted of pathways related to cancer, cell cycle, ERα receptor signaling, and angiogenesis. The second cluster, organized into five smaller pathway groups, related to immune system function, such as T-cell regulation and other white blood cell related pathways. Here we use novel implementations of bioinformatics tools to determine biological pathways impacted through epigenetic changes in utero by maternal smoking in 1062 participants in the MoBa, and successfully replicate these findings in an independent cohort. The results provide new insight into biological mechanisms that may contribute to adverse health effects from exposure to tobacco smoke in utero.	As &quot;-omics&quot; data technology advances and becomes more readily accessible to address complex biological questions, increasing amount of cross &quot;-omics&quot; dataset is inspiring the use and development of integrative bioinformatics analysis. In the current review, we discuss multiple options for integrating data across &quot;-omes&quot; for a range of study designs. We discuss established methods for such analysis and point the reader to in-depth discussions for the various topics. Additionally, we discuss challenges and new directions in the area. 	Ketamine, at sub-anesthetic doses, is reported to rapidly decrease depression symptoms in patients with treatment-resistant major depressive disorder (MDD). Many patients do not respond to currently available antidepressants, (for example, serotonin reuptake inhibitors), making ketamine and its enantiomer, esketamine, potentially attractive options for treatment-resistant MDD. Although mechanisms by which ketamine/esketamine may produce antidepressant effects have been hypothesized on the basis of preclinical data, the neurobiological correlates of the rapid therapeutic response observed in patients receiving treatment have not been established. Here we use a pharmacometabolomics approach to map global metabolic effects of these compounds in treatment-refractory MDD patients upon 2 h from infusion with ketamine (n=33) or its S-enantiomer, esketamine (n=20). The effects of esketamine on metabolism were retested in the same subjects following a second exposure administered 4 days later. Two complementary metabolomics platforms were used to provide broad biochemical coverage. In addition, we investigated whether changes in particular metabolites correlated with treatment outcome. Both drugs altered metabolites related to tryptophan metabolism (for example, indole-3-acetate and methionine) and/or the urea cycle (for example, citrulline, arginine and ornithine) at 2 h post infusion (q&lt;0.25). In addition, we observed changes in glutamate and circulating phospholipids that were significantly associated with decreases in depression severity. These data provide new insights into the mechanism underlying the rapid antidepressant effects of ketamine and esketamine, and constitute some of the first detailed metabolomics mapping for these promising therapies.	Millions of individuals are diagnosed with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D), which increases the risk for a plethora of adverse outcomes including cardiovascular events and kidney disease. Metformin is the most widely prescribed medication for the treatment of T2D; however, its mechanism is not fully understood and individuals vary in their response to this therapy. Here, we use a non-targeted, pharmacometabolomics approach to measure 384 metabolites in 33 non-diabetic, African American subjects dosed with metformin. Three plasma samples were obtained from each subject, one before and two after metformin administration. Validation studies were performed in wildtype mice given metformin. Fifty-four metabolites (including 21 unknowns) were significantly altered upon metformin administration, and 12 metabolites (including six unknowns) were significantly associated with metformin-induced change in glucose (q &lt; 0.2). Of note, indole-3-acetate, a metabolite produced by gut microbes, and 4-hydroxyproline were modulated following metformin exposure in both humans and mice. 2-Hydroxybutanoic acid, a metabolite previously associated with insulin resistance and an early biomarker of T2D, was positively correlated with fasting glucose levels as well as glucose levels following oral glucose tolerance tests after metformin administration. Pathway analysis revealed that metformin administration was associated with changes in a number of metabolites in the urea cycle and in purine metabolic pathways (q &lt; 0.01). Further research is needed to validate the biomarkers of metformin exposure and response identified in this study, and to understand the role of metformin in ammonia detoxification, protein degradation and purine metabolic pathways. 	Achieving hypertension (HTN) control and mitigating the adverse health effects associated with HTN continues to be a global challenge. Some individuals respond poorly to current HTN therapies, and mechanisms for response variation remain poorly understood. We used a nontargeted metabolomics approach (gas chromatography time-of-flight/mass spectrometry gas chromatography time-of-flight/mass spectrometry) measuring 489 metabolites to characterize metabolite signatures associated with treatment response to anti-HTN drugs, atenolol (ATEN), and hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ), in white and black participants with uncomplicated HTN enrolled in the Pharmacogenomic Evaluation of Antihypertensive Responses study. Metabolite profiles were significantly different between races, and metabolite responses associated with home diastolic blood pressure (HDBP) response were identified. Metabolite pathway analyses identified gluconeogenesis, plasmalogen synthesis, and tryptophan metabolism increases in white participants treated with HCTZ (P &lt; 0.05). Furthermore, we developed predictive models from metabolite signatures of HDBP treatment response (P &lt; 1 × 10(-5)). As part of a quantitative systems pharmacology approach, the metabolites identified herein may serve as biomarkers for improving treatment decisions and elucidating mechanisms driving HTN treatment responses. 	Thousands of environmental chemicals are subject to regulatory review for their potential to be endocrine disruptors (ED). In vitro high-throughput screening (HTS) assays have emerged as a potential tool for prioritizing chemicals for ED-related whole-animal tests. In this study, 1814 chemicals including pesticide active and inert ingredients, industrial chemicals, food additives, and pharmaceuticals were evaluated in a panel of 13 in vitro HTS assays. The panel of in vitro assays interrogated multiple end points related to estrogen receptor (ER) signaling, namely binding, agonist, antagonist, and cell growth responses. The results from the in vitro assays were used to create an ER Interaction Score. For 36 reference chemicals, an ER Interaction Score &gt;0 showed 100% sensitivity and 87.5% specificity for classifying potential ER activity. The magnitude of the ER Interaction Score was significantly related to the potency classification of the reference chemicals (p &lt; 0.0001). ERα/ERβ selectivity was also evaluated, but relatively few chemicals showed significant selectivity for a specific isoform. When applied to a broader set of chemicals with in vivo uterotrophic data, the ER Interaction Scores showed 91% sensitivity and 65% specificity. Overall, this study provides a novel method for combining in vitro concentration response data from multiple assays and, when applied to a large set of ER data, accurately predicted estrogenic responses and demonstrated its utility for chemical prioritization. 	NA	High-throughput screening (HTS) assays capable of profiling thousands of environmentally relevant chemicals for in vitro biological activity provide useful information on the potential for disrupting endocrine pathways. Disruption of the estrogen signaling pathway has been implicated in a variety of adverse health effects including impaired development, reproduction, and carcinogenesis. The estrogen-responsive human mammary ductal carcinoma cell line T-47D was exposed to 1815 ToxCast chemicals comprising pesticides, industrial chemicals, pharmaceuticals, personal care products, cosmetics, food ingredients, and other chemicals with known or suspected human exposure potential. Cell growth kinetics were evaluated using real-time cell electronic sensing. T-47D cells were exposed to eight concentrations (0.006-100 μM), and measurements of cellular impedance were repeatedly recorded for 105 h. Chemical effects were evaluated based on potency (concentration at which response occurs) and efficacy (extent of response). A linear growth response was observed in response to prototypical estrogen receptor agonists (17β-estradiol, genistein, bisphenol A, nonylphenol, and 4-tert-octylphenol). Several compounds, including bisphenol A and genistein, induced cell growth comparable in efficacy to that of 17β-estradiol, but with decreased potency. Progestins, androgens, and corticosteroids invoked a biphasic growth response indicative of changes in cell number or cell morphology. Results from this cell growth assay were compared with results from additional estrogen receptor (ER) binding and transactivation assays. Chemicals detected as active in both the cell growth and ER receptor binding assays demonstrated potencies highly correlated with two ER transactivation assays (r = 0.72; r = 0.70). While ER binding assays detected chemicals that were highly potent or efficacious in the T-47D cell growth and transactivation assays, the binding assays lacked sensitivity in detecting weakly active compounds. In conclusion, this cell-based assay rapidly detects chemical effects on T-47D growth and shows potential, in combination with other HTS assays, to detect environmentally relevant chemicals with potential estrogenic activity. 
Rubin, Brian	Cancer Biology	30709447	27044772	26486743	26297068	25961935	25766843	24977739	24589855	21970485	21885404	In this review, we provide an update of the recently discovered, diagnostically significant genetic aberrations harbored by a subset of vascular neoplasms. From benign (epithelioid hemangioma, spindle cell hemangioma), to intermediate (pseudomyogenic hemangioendothelioma), to malignant (epithelioid hemangioendothelioma, angiosarcoma), each neoplasm features a mutation or gene fusion that facilitates its diagnosis by immunohistochemistry and/or molecular ancillary testing. The identification of these genetic anomalies not only assists with the objective classification and diagnosis of these neoplasms, but also serves to help recognize potential therapeutic targets.	Mesenchymal tumors in the liver, whether primary or metastatic, are rare. Meningeal hemangiopericytoma (HPC) is characteristically associated with delayed metastasis and the liver is one of the most common sites. Despite its consistent histological features, a pathological diagnosis of HPC in the liver is sometimes not straightforward due to its rarity and usually remote medical history of the primary meningeal tumor. In this report, the clinicopathological features of 5 cases of metastatic HPC to the liver were reviewed and described. 	As patients with BRAF V600E mutation respond to BRAF inhibitors, it is important to identify these mutations to stratify patients for the appropriate therapy. In this study, we evaluated the utility of a BRAF V600E allele-specific antibody in gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs). BRAF V600E mutation-specific immunohistochemistry (negative, weak, or moderate/strong expression) and BRAF sequencing were performed on 38 consecutive GISTs diagnosed between January 2013 and April 2014. GISTs from a cohort of 25 men and 13 women (mean age, 61 years; range, 39-88 years) were localized to the stomach (18), small bowel (10), colon (three), rectum (two), and pelvis/omentum (five). Strong and diffuse cytoplasmic BRAF expression was noted in two (5%) of 38 cases, while eight (21%) of 38 cases showed weak staining, and 28 (74%) of 38 cases were negative. Both of the strongly positive cases arose in the stomach, occurring in a 42-year-old and a 47-year-old woman, respectively. The lesions measured 0.8 and 1 cm, showed spindle cell morphology, and had no risk of progressive disease by Miettinen criteria. Both cases showed heterozygous BRAF V600E, while no BRAF mutations were detected in cases with weak or negative BRAF expression. BRAF V600E mutation-specific immunohistochemistry is a highly sensitive and specific method for detecting BRAF-mutated GISTs.	Approximately 85-90% of adult gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) harbor KIT and PDGFRA mutations. The remaining cases, including the majority of pediatric GISTs, lack these mutations, and have been designated as KIT/PDGFRA wild-type (WT) GISTs. Nearly 15% of WT GISTs harbor BRAF mutations, while others arise in patients with type I neurofibromatosis. Recent work has confirmed that 20-40% of KIT/PDGFRA WT GISTs show loss of function of succinate dehydrogenase complex. Less than 5% of GISTs lack known molecular alterations (&quot;quadruple-negative&quot; GISTs). Thus, it is important to consider genotyping these tumors to help better define their clinical behavior and therapy. 	The WWTR1 (protein is known as TAZ)-CAMTA1 (WC) fusion gene defines epithelioid hemangioendothelioma, a malignant vascular cancer. TAZ (transcriptional coactivator with PDZ binding motif) is a transcriptional coactivator and end effector of the Hippo tumor suppressor pathway. It is inhibited by phosphorylation by the Hippo kinases LATS1 and LATS2. Such phosphorylation causes cytoplasmic localization, 14-3-3 protein binding and the phorphorylation of a terminal phosphodegron promotes ubiquitin-dependent degradation (the phosphorylation of the different motifs has several effects). CAMTA1 is a putative tumor suppressive transcription factor. Here we demonstrate that TAZ-CAMTA1 (TC) fusion results in its nuclear localization and constitutive activation. Consequently, cells expressing TC display a TAZ-like transcriptional program that causes resistance to anoikis and oncogenic transformation. Our findings elucidate the mechanistic basis of TC oncogenic properties, highlight that TC is an important model to understand how the Hippo pathway can be inhibited in cancer, and provide approaches for targeting this chimeric protein. 	Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) were originally thought to harbor either KIT or platelet-derived growth factor receptor A (PDGFRA) mutations only. However, more recent discoveries have highlighted additional, less common oncogenic driver mutations including NF1, BRAF, and succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) mutations. Genotyping GISTs has become more important since not all genotypes respond equally to FDA-approved tyrosine kinase inhibitors. GIST is a paradigm for personalized cancer therapy. Recent studies demonstrate how immunohistochemistry can be used both to diagnose GIST and to screen for specific mutations. DOG1 is particularly useful in the diagnosis of KIT-negative GIST, including tumors with PDGFRA mutations, which can also potentially be identified by immunohistochemistry for PDGFRA. SDHB immunohistochemistry is useful in characterizing GISTs with SDHA-D mutations, whereas SDHA immunohistochemistry is able to identify SDHA mutant GISTs. 	Recurrent NAB2-STAT6 gene fusions have recently been identified in solitary fibrous tumour by next generation sequencing. Our aim was to examine the sensitivity and specificity of STAT6 immunohistochemistry for solitary fibrous tumour versus other morphologically similar soft tissue tumours. STAT6 expression was evaluated in 54 solitary fibrous tumours of various sites and 99 soft tissue tumours in the histological differential diagnosis. We used a rabbit monoclonal STAT6 antibody (1:100), which has not been reported by others, on formalin fixed, paraffin embedded whole sections and tissue microarray slides. Only nuclear staining of STAT6 was considered positive. Distribution of staining was scored as: 0 (no staining), 1+ (1-25%), 2+ (26-50%), 3+ (&gt;50%). Intensity was scored as weak, moderate or strong. Nuclear STAT6 staining was present in all SFT cases tested (54/54, sensitivity 100%), regardless of histology, anatomical site or CD34 status. The majority of cases showed 3+ and strong staining. All tested cases of cellular angiofibroma (0/9), myofibroblastoma (0/10), spindle cell lipoma (0/10), benign fibrous histiocytoma (0/13), dermatofibrosarcoma protruberans (0/9), low-grade fibromyxoid sarcoma (0/7), schwannoma (0/8), desmoid-type fibromatosis (0/8), monophasic synovial sarcoma (0/11), malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumour (0/7), and mesenchymal chondrosarcoma (0/7) were negative for STAT6 (specificity 100%). Our study further supports the utility of STAT6 immunohistochemistry as an adjunct in the diagnosis of solitary fibrous tumour.	Apoptosis-associated tyrosine kinase 1 (AATK1) was initially identified as a protein that was dramatically overexpressed during growth arrest and apoptosis of 32Dcl myeloblastic leukemia cells. AATK is expressed in different regions of the brain and may have a role in normal nervous system development by its dual functions of enhancing apoptosis of mature granule cells and promoting terminal neuronal differentiation of developing neurons. However, its function in cancer has never been studied. Melanoma is a tumor composed of transformed cells within the melanocyte lineage deriving from the embryonic neural crest. It has been shown that developmental pathways in neural crest cells have a direct bearing on melanoma formation and human metastatic melanoma cells express a dedifferentiated phenotype. We found that the expression levels of AATK are lower in metastatic melanoma cell lines compared with primary melanoma cell lines and normal human melanocytes. We found that depletion of AATK mRNA in metastatic melanoma cell lines enhanced cell migration in cell line derived from metastatic melanomas. Overexpression of AATK inhibited cell proliferation, colony formation, and promoted apoptosis in melanoma cell lines derived from primary and metastatic melanomas. Signal transduction pathway analysis revealed that Src is involved in regulating AATK. Our results demonstrate for the first time that AATK inhibits cell proliferation, colony formation, and migration, and also promotes apoptosis in melanoma cells. 	Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) are the most common mesenchymal neoplasms of the gastrointestinal tract and should be differentiated from other mesenchymal tumors. They harbor specific activating mutations in the KIT or platelet-derived growth factor receptor α ( PDGFRA ) receptor tyrosine kinases, which makes them responsive to pharmacologic inhibitors, such as imatinib mesylate and sunitinib malate. To provide a comprehensive review of the pathogenesis of GIST and the underlying principles of targeted therapy, to review the salient histologic and immunohistochemical features that facilitate the distinction of GIST from other mesenchymal neoplasms of the gastrointestinal tract, and to present the prognostic parameters for risk stratification that guide clinical management. Review of the English literature through PubMed as well as personal experience. Photographs were taken from cases encountered at the Cleveland Clinic. The discovery of the KIT -GIST connection has not only improved the diagnostic accuracy of GISTs but also provided us with a better understanding of the histogenesis and molecular pathogenesis of these neoplasms.	Integrating transcriptomic sequencing with conventional cytogenetics, we identified WWTR1 (WW domain-containing transcription regulator 1) (3q25) and CAMTA1 (calmodulin-binding transcription activator 1) (1p36) as the two genes involved in the t(1;3)(p36;q25) chromosomal translocation that is characteristic of epithelioid hemangioendothelioma (EHE), a vascular sarcoma. This WWTR1/CAMTA1 gene fusion is under the transcriptional control of the WWTR1 promoter and encodes a putative chimeric transcription factor that joins the amino terminus of WWTR1, a protein that is highly expressed in endothelial cells, in-frame to the carboxyl terminus of CAMTA1, a protein that is normally expressed only in brain. Thus, CAMTA1 expression is activated inappropriately through a promoter-switch mechanism. The gene fusion is present in virtually all EHEs tested but is absent from all other vascular neoplasms, demonstrating it to be a disease-defining genetic alteration. A sensitive and specific break-apart fluorescence in situ hybridization assay was also developed to detect the translocation and will assist in the evaluation of this diagnostically challenging neoplasm. The chimeric WWTR1/CAMTA1 transcription factor may represent a therapeutic target for EHE and offers the opportunity to shed light on the functions of two poorly characterized proteins.
Runge, Kurt	Inflammation and Immunity	30498568	29784772	29544213	29018935	28292918	23874875	22289863	22094427	19409973	17803948	DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) activate the DNA damage checkpoint machinery to pause or halt the cell cycle. Telomeres, the specific DNA-protein complexes at linear eukaryotic chromosome ends, are capped DSBs that do not activate DNA damage checkpoints. This &quot;checkpoint privileged&quot; status of telomeres was previously investigated in the yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombelacking the major double-stranded telomere DNA binding protein Taz1. Telomeric DNA repeats in cells lacking Taz1 are 10 times longer than normal and contain single-stranded DNA regions. DNA damage checkpoint proteins associate with these damaged telomeres, but the DNA damage checkpoint is not activated. This severing of the DNA damage checkpoint signaling pathway was reported to stem from exclusion of histone H4 lysine 20 dimethylation (H4K20me2) from telomeric nucleosomes in both wild type cells and cells lacking Taz1. However, experiments to identify the mechanism of this exclusion failed, prompting our re-evaluation of H4K20me2 levels at telomeric chromatin. In this short report, we used an extensive series of controls to identify an antibody specific for the H4K20me2 modification and show that the level of this modification is the same at telomeres and internal loci in both wild type cells and those lacking Taz1. Consequently, telomeres must block activation of the DNA Damage Response by another mechanism that remains to be determined.	Heterochromatin domains play important roles in chromosome biology, organismal development, and aging, including centromere function, mammalian female X chromosome inactivation, and senescence-associated heterochromatin foci. In the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe and metazoans, heterochromatin contains histone H3 that is dimethylated at lysine 9. While factors required for heterochromatin have been identified, the dynamics of heterochromatin formation are poorly understood. Telomeres convert adjacent chromatin into heterochromatin. To form a new heterochromatic region in S. pombe, an inducible DNA double-strand break (DSB) was engineered next to 48 bp of telomere repeats in euchromatin, which caused formation of a new telomere and the establishment and gradual spreading of a new heterochromatin domain. However, spreading was dynamic even after the telomere had reached its stable length, with reporter genes within the heterochromatin domain showing variegated expression. The system also revealed the presence of repeats located near the boundaries of euchromatin and heterochromatin that are oriented to allow the efficient healing of a euchromatic DSB to cap the chromosome end with a new telomere. Telomere formation in S. pombe therefore reveals novel aspects of heterochromatin dynamics and fail-safe mechanisms to repair subtelomeric breaks, with implications for similar processes in metazoan genomes.	Telomeres, the ends of eukaryotic chromosomes, consist of repetitive DNA sequences and their bound proteins that protect the end from the DNA damage response. Short telomeres with fewer repeats are preferentially elongated by telomerase. Tel1, the yeast homolog of human ATM kinase, is preferentially recruited to short telomeres and Tel1 kinase activity is required for telomere elongation. Rif1, a telomere-binding protein, negatively regulates telomere length by forming a complex with two other telomere binding proteins, Rap1 and Rif2, to block telomerase recruitment. Rif1 has 14 SQ/TQ consensus phosphorylation sites for ATM kinases, including 6 in a SQ/TQ Cluster Domain (SCD) similar to other DNA damage response proteins. These 14 sites were analyzed as N-terminal, SCD and C-terminal domains. Mutating some sites to non-phosphorylatable residues increased telomere length in cells lacking Tel1 while a different set of phosphomimetic mutants increased telomere length in cells lacking Rif2, suggesting that Rif1 phosphorylation has both positive and negative effects on length regulation. While these mutations did not alter the sensitivity to DNA damaging agents, inducing telomere-specific damage by growing cells lacking YKU70 at high temperature revealed a role for the SCD. Mass spectrometry of Rif1 from wild type cells or those induced for telomere-specific DNA damage revealed increased phosphorylation in cells with telomere damage at an ATM consensus site in the SCD, S1351, and non-ATM sites S181 and S1637. A phosphomimetic rif1-S1351E mutation caused an increase in telomere length at synthetic telomeres but not natural telomeres. These results indicate that the Rif1 SCD can modulate Rif1 function. As all Rif1 orthologs have one or more SCD domains, these results for yeast Rif1 have implications for the regulation of Rif1 function in humans and other organisms.	Chromosomal breaks can be healed by several repair processes, including one called non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ) where the two broken ends are ligated together with a loss of 0-5 bp of DNA. The protein requirements for NHEJ of cut DNA ends in the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae include its version of the Mre11-Rad50-Nbs1 (MRN) complex. In contrast, the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe and mammalian cells do not require MRN for this process. Recent work in S. pombe used transposon excision to generate breaks that were capped by DNA hairpins, which must be opened to produce ligatable ends. Repair in S. pombe was through an NHEJ reaction that now requires MRN. Surprisingly, wild type cells and MRN mutants that lack nuclease activity showed the same levels of excision. These genetic results suggest that MRN recruits an unknown hairpin-opening nuclease for this unusual NHEJ reaction.	While the Mre11-Rad50-Nbs1 (MRN) complex has known roles in repair processes like homologous recombination and microhomology-mediated end-joining, its role in nonhomologous end-joining (NHEJ) is unclear as Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Schizosaccharomyces pombe, and mammals have different requirements for repairing cut DNA ends. Most double-strand breaks (DSBs) require nucleolytic processing prior to DNA ligation. Therefore, we studied repair using the Hermes transposon, whose excision leaves a DSB capped by hairpin ends similar to structures generated by palindromes and trinucleotide repeats. We generated single Hermes insertions using a novel S. pombe transient transfection system, and used Hermes excision to show a requirement for MRN in the NHEJ of nonligatable ends. NHEJ repair was indicated by the &gt;1000-fold decrease in excision in cells lacking Ku or DNA ligase 4. Most repaired excision sites had &lt;5 bp of sequence loss or mutation, characteristic for NHEJ and similar excision events in metazoans, and in contrast to the more extensive loss seen in S. cerevisiaeS. pombe NHEJ was reduced &gt;1000-fold in cells lacking each MRN subunit, and loss of MRN-associated Ctp1 caused a 30-fold reduction. An Mre11 dimer is thought to hold DNA ends together for repair, and Mre11 dimerization domain mutations reduced repair 300-fold. In contrast, a mre11 mutant defective in endonucleolytic activity, the same mutant lacking Ctp1, or the triple mutant also lacking the putative hairpin nuclease Pso2 showed wild-type levels of repair. Thus, MRN may act to recruit the hairpin opening activity that allows subsequent repair.	Model organisms such as budding yeast, worms and flies have proven instrumental in the discovery of genetic determinants of aging, and the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe is a promising new system for these studies. We devised an approach to directly select for long-lived S. pombe mutants from a random DNA insertion library. Each insertion mutation bears a unique sequence tag called a bar code that allows one to determine the proportion of an individual mutant in a culture containing thousands of different mutants. Aging these mutants in culture allowed identification of a long-lived mutant bearing an insertion mutation in the cyclin gene clg1(+). Clg1p, like Pas1p, physically associates with the cyclin-dependent kinase Pef1p. We identified a third Pef1p cyclin, Psl1p, and found that only loss of Clg1p or Pef1p extended lifespan. Genetic and co-immunoprecipitation results indicate that Pef1p controls lifespan through the downstream protein kinase Cek1p. While Pef1p is conserved as Pho85p in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and as cdk5 in humans, genome-wide searches for lifespan regulators in S. cerevisiae have never identified Pho85p. Thus, the S. pombe system can be used to identify novel, evolutionarily conserved lifespan extending mutations, and our results suggest a potential role for mammalian cdk5 as a lifespan regulator.	In many organisms, telomere DNA consists of simple sequence repeat tracts that are required to protect the chromosome end. In the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, tract maintenance requires two checkpoint kinases of the ATM family, Tel1p and Mec1p. Previous work has shown that Tel1p is recruited to functional telomeres with shorter repeat tracts to promote telomerase-mediated repeat addition, but the role of Mec1p is unknown. We found that Mec1p telomere association was detected as cells senesced when telomere function was compromised by extreme shortening due to either the loss of telomerase or the double-strand break binding protein Ku. Exonuclease I effects the removal of the 5' telomeric strand, and eliminating it prevented both senescence and Mec1p telomere association. Thus, in contrast to Tel1p, Mec1p associates with short, functionally compromised telomeres.	Yeasts are powerful model systems to examine the evolutionarily conserved aspects of eukaryotic aging because they maintain many of the same core cellular signaling pathways and essential organelles as human cells. We constructed a strain of the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae that could monitor the distribution of proteins involved in heterochromatic silencing and aging, and isolated mutants that alter this distribution. The largest class of such mutants cause defects in mitochondrial function, and appear to cause changes in nuclear silencing separate from the well-known Rtg2p-dependent pathway that alters nuclear transcription in response to the loss of the mitochondrial genome. Mutants that inactivate the ATP2 gene, which encodes the ATPase subunit of the mitochondrial F(1)F(0)-ATPase, were isolated twice in our screen and identify a lifespan extending pathway in a gene that is conserved in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. The budding yeast S. cerevisiae S. cerevisiae has been used with great success to identify other lifespan-extending pathways in screens using surrogate phenotypes such as stress resistance or silencing to identify random mutants, or in high throughput screens that utilize the deletion strain set resource. However, the direct selection of long-lived mutants from a pool of random mutants is more challenging. We have established a new chronological aging assay for the evolutionarily distant fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe that recapitulates aspects of aging conserved in all eukaryotes. We have constructed a novel S. pombe S. pombe DNA insertion mutant bank, and used it to show that we can directly select for a long-lived mutant. The use of both the budding and fission yeast systems should continue to facilitate the identification and validation of lifespan extending pathways that are conserved in humans.	We describe a new chronological lifespan (CLS) assay for the yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe. Yeast CLS assays monitor the loss of cell viability in a culture over time, and this new assay shows a continuous decline in viability without detectable regrowth until all cells in the culture are dead. Thus, the survival curve is not altered by the generation of mutants that can grow during the experiments, and one can monitor the entire lifespan of a strain until the number of viable cells has decreased over 10(6)-fold. This CLS assay recapitulates the evolutionarily conserved features of lifespan shortening by over nutrition, lifespan extension by caloric restriction, increased stress resistance of calorically restricted cells and lifespan control by the AKT kinases. Both S. pombe AKT kinase orthologs regulate CLS: loss of sck1(+) extended lifespan in over nutrition conditions, loss of sck2(+) extended lifespan under both normal and over nutrition conditions, and loss of both genes showed that sck1(+) and sck2(+) control different longevity pathways. The longest-lived S. pombe cells showed the most efficient cell cycle exit, demonstrating that caloric restriction links these two processes. This new S. pombe CLS assay will provide a valuable tool for aging research.	In many organisms, telomeric DNA consists of long tracts of short repeats. Shorter tracts are preferentially lengthened by telomerase, suggesting a conserved mechanism that recognizes and elongates short telomeres. Tel1p, an ATM family checkpoint kinase, plays an important role in telomere elongation, as cells lacking Tel1p have short telomeres and show reduced recruitment of telomerase components to telomeres. We show that Tel1p association increased as telomeres shortened in vivo in the presence or absence of telomerase and that Tel1p preferentially associated with the shortest telomeres. Tel1p association was independent of Tel1p kinase activity and enhanced by Mre11p. Tel1p overexpression simultaneously stimulated telomerase-mediated elongation and Tel1p association with all telomeres. Thus, Tel1p preferentially associates with the shortest telomeres and stimulates their elongation by telomerase.
Sakaguchi, Takuya	Inflammation and Immunity	28720653	23744565	22222761	18951027	17008449	27396333	31016744	26929344	NA	NA	The intrahepatic biliary network is a highly branched three-dimensional network lined by biliary epithelial cells, but how its branching patterns are precisely established is not clear. We designed a new computer-based algorithm that quantitatively computes the structural differences of the three-dimensional networks. Utilizing the algorithm, we showed that inhibition of Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) led to reduced branching in the intrahepatic biliary network in zebrafish. Further, we identified a previously unappreciated downstream kinase cascade regulated by Cdk5. Pharmacological manipulations of this downstream kinase cascade produced a crowded branching defect in the intrahepatic biliary network and influenced actin dynamics in biliary epithelial cells. We generated larvae carrying a mutation in cdk5 regulatory subunit 1a (cdk5r1a), an essential activator of Cdk5. cdk5r1a mutant larvae show similar branching defects as those observed in Cdk5 inhibitor-treated larvae. A small-molecule compound that interferes with the downstream kinase cascade rescued the mutant phenotype. These results provide new insights into branching morphogenesis of the intrahepatic biliary network.	Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is the most common liver disease in both adults and children. The earliest stage of this disease is hepatic steatosis, in which triglycerides are deposited as cytoplasmic lipid droplets in hepatocytes. Through a forward genetic approach in zebrafish, we found that guanosine monophosphate (GMP) synthetase mutant larvae develop hepatic steatosis. We further demonstrate that activity of the small GTPase Rac1 and Rac1-mediated production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) are down-regulated in GMP synthetase mutant larvae. Inhibition of Rac1 activity or ROS production in wild-type larvae by small molecule inhibitors was sufficient to induce hepatic steatosis. More conclusively, treating larvae with hydrogen peroxide, a diffusible ROS that has been implicated as a signaling molecule, alleviated hepatic steatosis in both GMP synthetase mutant and Rac1 inhibitor-treated larvae, indicating that homeostatic production of ROS is required to prevent hepatic steatosis. We further found that ROS positively regulate the expression of the triglyceride hydrolase gene, which is responsible for the mobilization of stored triglycerides in hepatocytes. Consistently, inhibition of triglyceride hydrolase activity in wild-type larvae by a small molecule inhibitor was sufficient to induce hepatic steatosis. De novo GMP synthesis influences the activation of the small GTPase Rac1, which controls hepatic lipid dynamics through ROS-mediated regulation of triglyceride hydrolase expression in hepatocytes.	Biliary epithelial cells line the intrahepatic biliary network, a complex three-dimensional network of conduits. The loss of differentiated biliary epithelial cells is the primary cause of many congenital liver diseases. We identified a zebrafish snapc4 (small nuclear RNA-activating complex polypeptide 4) mutant in which biliary epithelial cells initially differentiate but subsequently disappear. In these snapc4 mutant larvae, biliary epithelial cells undergo apoptosis, leading to degeneration of the intrahepatic biliary network. Consequently, in snapc4 mutant larvae, biliary transport of ingested fluorescent lipids to the gallbladder is blocked. Snapc4 is the largest subunit of a protein complex that regulates small nuclear RNA (snRNA) transcription. The snapc4(s445) mutation causes a truncation of the C-terminus, thereby deleting the domain responsible for a specific interaction with Snapc2, a vertebrate specific subunit of the SNAP complex. This mutation leads to a hypomorphic phenotype, as only a subset of snRNA transcripts are quantitatively altered in snapc4(s445) mutant larvae. snapc2 knockdown also disrupts the intrahepatic biliary network in a similar fashion as in snapc4(s445) mutant larvae. These data indicate that the physical interaction between Snapc2 and Snapc4 is important for the expression of a subset of snRNAs and biliary epithelial cell survival in zebrafish.	Emerging evidence indicates that paracrine signals from endothelial cells play a role in tissue differentiation and organ formation [1-3]. Here, we identify a novel role for endothelial cells in modulating hepatocyte polarization during liver organogenesis. We find that in zebrafish, the apical domain of the hepatocytes predicts the location of the intrahepatic biliary network. The refinement of hepatocyte polarization coincides with the invasion of endothelial cells into the liver, and these endothelial cells migrate along the maturing basal surface of the hepatocytes. Using genetic, pharmacological, and transplantation experiments, we provide evidence that endothelial cells influence the polarization of the adjacent hepatocytes. This influence of endothelial cells on hepatocytes is mediated at least in part by the cell-surface protein Heart of glass and contributes to the establishment of coordinately aligned hepatocyte apical membranes and evenly spaced intrahepatic conduits.	The roles of extra-embryonic tissues in early vertebrate body patterning have been extensively studied, yet we know little about their function during later developmental events. Here, we analyze the function of the zebrafish extra-embryonic yolk syncytial layer (YSL) specific transcription factor, Mtx1, and find that it plays an essential role in myocardial migration. Downregulating the function of Mtx1 in the YSL leads to cardia bifida, a phenotype in which the myocardial cells fail to migrate to the midline. Mtx1 in the extra-embryonic YSL appears to regulate the embryonic expression of fibronectin, a gene previously implicated in myocardial migration. We further show dosage-sensitive genetic interactions between mtx1 and fibronectin. Based on these data, we propose that the extra-embryonic YSL regulates myocardial migration, at least in part by influencing fibronectin expression and subsequent assembly of the extracellular matrix in embryonic tissues.	Adipose triglyceride lipase (ATGL) and comparative gene identification 58 (CGI-58) are critical regulators of triacylglycerol (TAG) turnover. CGI-58 is thought to regulate TAG mobilization by stimulating the enzymatic activity of ATGL. However, it is not known whether this coactivation function of CGI-58 occurs in vivo. Moreover, the phenotype of human CGI-58 mutations suggests ATGL-independent functions. Through direct comparison of mice with single or double deficiency of CGI-58 and ATGL, we show here that CGI-58 knockdown causes hepatic steatosis in both the presence and absence of ATGL. CGI-58 also regulates hepatic diacylglycerol (DAG) and inflammation in an ATGL-independent manner. Interestingly, ATGL deficiency, but not CGI-58 deficiency, results in suppression of the hepatic and adipose de novo lipogenic program. Collectively, these findings show that CGI-58 regulates hepatic neutral lipid storage and inflammation in the genetic absence of ATGL, demonstrating that mechanisms driving TAG lipolysis in hepatocytes differ significantly from those in adipocytes.	The growing burden of liver fibrosis and lack of effective antifibrotic therapies highlight the need for identification of pathways and complementary model systems of hepatic fibrosis. A rare, monogenic disorder in which children with mutations in mannose phosphate isomerase (MPI) develop liver fibrosis led us to explore the function of MPI and mannose metabolism in liver development and adult liver diseases. Herein, analyses of transcriptomic data from three human liver cohorts demonstrate that MPI gene expression is down-regulated proportionate to fibrosis in chronic liver diseases, including nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and hepatitis B virus. Depletion of MPI in zebrafish liver in vivo and in human hepatic stellate cell (HSC) lines in culture activates fibrotic responses, indicating that loss of MPI promotes HSC activation. We further demonstrate that mannose supplementation can attenuate HSC activation, leading to reduced fibrogenic activation in zebrafish, culture-activated HSCs, and in ethanol-activated HSCs. Conclusion: These data indicate the prospect that modulation of mannose metabolism pathways could reduce HSC activation and improve hepatic fibrosis.	Mitochondria are the site of iron utilization, wherein imported iron is incorporated into heme or iron-sulfur clusters. Previously, we showed that a cytosolic siderophore, which resembles a bacterial siderophore, facilitates mitochondrial iron import in eukaryotes, including zebrafish. An evolutionarily conserved 3-hydroxy butyrate dehydrogenase, 3-hydroxy butyrate dehydrogenase 2 (Bdh2), catalyzes a rate-limiting step in the biogenesis of the eukaryotic siderophore. We found that inactivation of bdh2 in developing zebrafish embryo results in heme deficiency and delays erythroid maturation. The basis for this erythroid maturation defect is not known. Here we show that bdh2 inactivation results in mitochondrial dysfunction and triggers their degradation by mitophagy. Thus, mitochondria are prematurely lost in bdh2-inactivated erythrocytes. Interestingly, bdh2-inactivated erythroid cells also exhibit genomic alterations as indicated by transcriptome analysis. Reestablishment of bdh2 restores mitochondrial function, prevents premature mitochondrial degradation, promotes erythroid development, and reverses altered gene expression. Thus, mitochondrial communication with the nucleus is critical for erythroid development. 	NA	NA
Samuels, Ivy	Ophthalmic Research	30543793	28965505	27367517	25429122	24106123	23101909	20484527	19186160	18596172	11500922	In diabetes, there are two major physiological aberrations: (i) Loss of insulin signaling due to absence of insulin (type 1 diabetes) or insulin resistance (type 2 diabetes) and (ii) increased blood glucose levels. The retina has a high proclivity to damage following diabetes, and much of the pathology seen in diabetic retinopathy has been ascribed to hyperglycemia and downstream cascades activated by increased blood glucose. However, less attention has been focused on the direct role of insulin on retinal physiology, likely due to the fact that uptake of glucose in retinal cells is not insulin-dependent. The retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) is instrumental in maintaining the structural and functional integrity of the retina. Recent studies have suggested that RPE dysfunction is a precursor of, and contributes to, the development of diabetic retinopathy. To evaluate the role of insulin on RPE cell function directly, we generated a RPE specific insulin receptor (IR) knockout (RPEIRKO) mouse using the Cre-loxP system. Using this mouse, we sought to determine the impact of insulin-mediated signaling in the RPE on retinal function under physiological control conditions as well as in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetes. We demonstrate that loss of RPE-specific IR expression resulted in lower a- and b-wave electroretinogram amplitudes in diabetic mice as compared to diabetic mice that expressed IR on the RPE. Interestingly, RPEIRKO mice did not exhibit significant differences in the amplitude of the RPE-dependent electroretinogram c-wave as compared to diabetic controls. However, loss of IR-mediated signaling in the RPE reduced levels of reactive oxygen species and the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines in the retina of diabetic mice. These results imply that IR-mediated signaling in the RPE regulates photoreceptor function and may play a role in the generation of oxidative stress and inflammation in the retina in diabetes.	Chronic low grade inflammation is considered to contribute to the development of experimental diabetic retinopathy (DR). We recently demonstrated that lack of CD40 in mice ameliorates the upregulation of inflammatory molecules in the diabetic retina and prevented capillary degeneration, a hallmark of experimental diabetic retinopathy. Herein, we investigated the contribution of CD40 to diabetes-induced reductions in retinal function via the electroretinogram (ERG) to determine if inflammation plays a role in the development of ERG defects associated with diabetes. We demonstrate that diabetic CD40-/- mice are not protected from reduction to the ERG b-wave despite failing to upregulate inflammatory molecules in the retina. Our data therefore supports the hypothesis that retinal dysfunction found in diabetics occurs independent of the induction of inflammatory processes.	The electroretinogram c-wave is generated by the summation of the positive polarity hyperpolarization of the apical RPE membrane and a negative polarity slow PIII response of Müller glia cells. Therefore, the c-wave reduction noted in prior studies of mouse models of diabetes could reflect a reduction in the RPE component or an increase in slow PIII. The present study used a genetic approach to distinguish between these two alternatives. Nyxnob mice lack the ERG b-wave, revealing the early phase of slow PIII. To visualize changes in slow PIII due to diabetes, Nyxnob mice were given streptozotocin (STZ) injections to induce diabetes or received vehicle as a control. After 1, 2, and 4 weeks of sustained hyperglycemia (&gt;250 mg/dL), standard strobe flash ERG and dc-ERG testing were conducted. Histological analysis of the retina was performed. A reduced c-wave was noted at the 1 week time point, and persisted at later time points. In comparison, slow PIII amplitudes were unaffected after 1 week of hyperglycemia, but were significantly reduced in STZ mice at the 2-week time point. The decrease in amplitude occurred before any identifiable decrease to the a-wave. At the later time point, the a-wave became involved, although the slow PIII reductions were more pronounced. Morphological abnormalities in the RPE, including increased thickness and altered melanosome distribution, were identified in diabetic animals. Because the c-wave and slow PIII were both reduced, these results demonstrated that diabetes-induced reductions to the c-wave cannot be attributed to an early increase in the Müller glia-derived potassium conductance. Furthermore, because the a-wave, slow PIII and c-wave reductions were not equivalent, and varied in their onset, the reductions cannot reflect the same mechanism, such as a change in membrane resistance. The presence of small changes to RPE architecture indicate that the c-wave reductions present in diabetic mice likely represents a primary change in the RPE induced by hyperglycemia.	In the diabetic retina, cellular changes in the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) and neurons occur before vision loss or diabetic retinopathy can be identified clinically. The precise etiologies of retinal pathology are poorly defined, and it remains unclear if the onset and progression of cellular dysfunction differ between type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Three mouse models were used to compare the time course of RPE involvement in type 1 and type 2 diabetes. C57BL/6J mice injected with streptozotocin (STZ mice) modeled type 1 diabetes, whereas Lepr(db/db) mice on both BKS and B6.BKS background strains modeled type 2 diabetes. Electroretinogram (ERG)-based techniques were used to measure light-evoked responses of the RPE (direct current-coupled ERG, dc-ERG) and the neural retina (a-wave, b-wave). Following onset of hyperglycemia, a-wave and b-wave amplitudes of STZ mice declined progressively and by equivalent degrees. Components of the dc-ERG were also altered, with the largest reduction seen in the c-wave. Lepr(db/db) mice on the BKS strain (BKS.Lepr) displayed sustained hyperglycemia and a small increase in insulin, whereas Lepr(db/db) mice on the B6.BKS background (B6.BKS.Lepr) were transiently hyperglycemic and displayed severe hyperinsulinemia. BKS.Lepr mice exhibited sustained reductions in the dc-ERG c-wave, fast oscillation, and off response that were not attributable to reduced photoreceptor activity; B6.BKS.Lepr mice displayed transient reductions in the c-wave and fast oscillation that correlated with hyperglycemia and magnitude of photoreceptor activity. In summary, all mouse models displayed altered RPE function concomitant with the onset of hyperglycemia. These results suggest that RPE function is directly reduced by elevated blood glucose levels. That RPE dysfunction was reversible and mitigated in hyperinsulinemic B6.BKS.Lepr mice provides insight into the underlying mechanism. 	To determine the molecular basis and the pathologic consequences of a chemically induced mutation in the translational vision research models 89 (tvrm89) mouse model with ERG defects. Mice from a G3 N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea mutagenesis program were screened for behavioral abnormalities and defects in retinal function by ERGs. The chromosomal position for the recessive tvrm89 mutation was determined in a genome-wide linkage analysis. The critical region was refined, and candidate genes were screened by direct sequencing. The tvrm89 phenotype was characterized by circling behavior, in vivo ocular imaging, detailed ERG-based studies of the retina and RPE, and histological analysis of these structures. The tvrm89 mutation was localized to a region on chromosome 9 containing Myo6. Sequencing identified a T→C point mutation in the codon for amino acid 480 in Myo6 that converts a leucine to a proline. This mutation does not confer a loss of protein expression levels; however, mice homozygous for the Myo6(tvrm89) mutation display an abnormal iris shape and attenuation of both strobe-flash ERGs and direct-current ERGs by 4 age weeks, neither of which is associated with photoreceptor loss. The tvrm89 phenotype mimics that reported for Myosin6-null mice, suggesting that the mutation confers a loss of myosin 6 protein function. The observation that homozygous Myo6(tvrm89) mice display reduced ERG a-wave and b-wave components, as well as components of the ERG attributed to RPE function, indicates that myosin 6 is necessary for the generation of proper responses of the outer retina to light.	Streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetes is associated with reductions in the electrical response of the outer retina and retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) to light. Aldose reductase (AR) is the first enzyme required in the polyol-mediated metabolism of glucose, and AR inhibitors have been shown to improve diabetes-induced electroretinogram (ERG) defects. Here, we used control and AR -/- mice to determine if genetic inactivation of this enzyme likewise inhibits retinal electrophysiological defects observed in a mouse model of type 1 diabetes. STZ was used to induce hyperglycemia and type 1 diabetes. Diabetic and age-matched nondiabetic controls of each genotype were maintained for 22 weeks, after which ERGs were used to measure the light-evoked components of the RPE (dc-ERG) and the neural retina (a-wave, b-wave). In comparison to their nondiabetic controls, wildtype (WT) and AR -/- diabetic mice displayed significant decreases in the c-wave, fast oscillation, and off response components of the dc-ERG but not in the light peak response. Nondiabetic AR -/- mice displayed larger ERG component amplitudes than did nondiabetic WT mice; however, the amplitude of dc-ERG components in diabetic AR -/- animals were similar to WT diabetics. ERG a-wave amplitudes were not reduced in either diabetic group, but b-wave amplitudes were lower in WT and AR -/-diabetic mice. These findings demonstrate that the light-induced responses of the RPE and outer retina are disrupted in diabetic mice, but these defects are not due to photoreceptor dysfunction, nor are they ameliorated by deletion of AR. This latter finding suggests that benefits observed in other studies utilizing pharmacological inhibitors of AR might have been secondary to off-target effects of the drugs.	Mutations in genes expressed in the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) underlie a number of human inherited retinal disorders that manifest with photoreceptor degeneration. Because light-evoked responses of the RPE are generated secondary to rod photoreceptor activity, RPE response reductions observed in human patients or animal models may simply reflect decreased photoreceptor input. The purpose of this study was to define how the electrophysiological characteristics of the RPE change when the complement of rod photoreceptors is decreased. To measure RPE function, we used an electroretinogram (dc-ERG)-based technique. We studied a slowly progressive mouse model of photoreceptor degeneration (Prph(Rd2/+)), which was crossed onto a Nyx(nob) background to eliminate the b-wave and most other postreceptoral ERG components. On this background, Prph(Rd2/+) mice display characteristic reductions in a-wave amplitude, which parallel those in slow PIII amplitude and the loss of rod photoreceptors. At 2 and 4 mo of age, the amplitude of each dc-ERG component (c-wave, fast oscillation, light peak, and off response) was larger in Prph(Rd2/+) mice than predicted by rod photoreceptor activity (Rm(P3)) or anatomical analysis. At 4 mo of age, the RPE in Prph(Rd2/+) mice showed several structural abnormalities including vacuoles and swollen, hypertrophic cells. These data demonstrate that insights into RPE function can be gained despite a loss of photoreceptors and structural changes in RPE cells and, moreover, that RPE function can be evaluated in a broader range of mouse models of human retinal disease.	The ERK MAP kinase signaling cascade plays critical roles in brain development, learning, memory, and cognition. It has recently been appreciated that mutation or deletion of elements within this signaling pathway leads to developmental syndromes in humans that are associated with impaired cognitive function and autism. Here, we review recent studies that provide insight into the biological roles of the ERKs in the brain that may underlie the cognitive deficits seen in these syndromes.	The mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases ERK1 and ERK2 are critical intracellular signaling intermediates; however, little is known about their isoform-specific functions in vivo. We have examined the role of ERK2 in neural development by conditional inactivation of the murine mapk1/ERK2 gene in neural progenitor cells of the developing cortex. ERK MAP kinase (MAPK) activity in neural progenitor cells is required for neuronal cell fate determination. Loss of ERK2 resulted in a reduction in cortical thickness attributable to impaired proliferation of neural progenitors during the neurogenic period and the generation of fewer neurons. Mutant neural progenitor cells remained in an undifferentiated state until gliogenic stimuli induced their differentiation, resulting in the generation of more astrocytes. The mutant mice displayed profound deficits in associative learning. Importantly, we have identified patients with a 1 Mb microdeletion on chromosome 22q11.2 encompassing the MAPK1/ERK2 gene. These children, who have reduced ERK2 levels, exhibit microcephaly, impaired cognition, and developmental delay. These findings demonstrate an important role for ERK2 in cellular proliferation and differentiation during neural development as well as in cognition and memory formation.	Atypical protein kinase Cs zeta and lambda/iota play a functional role in the regulation of NGF-induced differentiation and survival of pheochromocytoma, PC12 cells [Coleman and Wooten, 1994; Wooten et al., 1999]. Here we demonstrate an NGF-dependent interaction of aPKC with its binding protein, ZIP/p62. Although, ZIP/p62 was not a PKC-iota substrate, the formation of a ZIP/p62-aPKC complex in PC12 cells by NGF occurred post activation of PKC-iota and was regulated by the tyrosine phosphorylation state of aPKC. Furthermore, NGF-dependent localization of ZIP/p62 was observed within vesicular structures, identified as late endosomes by colocalization with a Rab7 antibody. Both ZIP/p62 as well as PKC-iota colocalized with Rab7 upon NGF stimulation. Inhibition of the tyrosine phosphorylation state of PKC-iota did not prevent movement of ZIP/p62 to the endosomal compartment. These observations indicate that the subcellular localization of ZIP/p62 does not depend entirely upon activation of aPKC itself. Of functional importance, transfection of an antisense p62 construct into PC12 cells significantly diminished NGF-induced neurite outgrowth. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that ZIP/p62 acts as a shuttling protein involved in routing activated aPKC to an endosomal compartment and is required for mediating NGF's biological properties.
Saunthararajah, Yogen	Translational Hematology and Oncology Research	30936220	30231326	30015632	29225849	28880867	28758902	28726739	28561650	25977578	24879424	Even in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), a cancer of professional antigen-presenting cells, response rates to immune checkpoint blockade therapy have been limited. One reason for DLBCL immune evasion is epigenetic repression instead of activation of the antigen-presenting MHC-a dissection of mechanisms underlying this repression suggests an opening for restoring B-cell maturation and, along the way, MHC expression as a novel modality of cytoreducing DLBCL and simultaneously augmenting possibilities for immunotherapy.See related article by Ennishi et al., p. 546.	Self-replication is the engine that drives all biologic evolution, including neoplastic evolution. A key oncotherapy challenge is to target this, the heart of malignancy, while sparing the normal self-replication mandatory for health and life. Self-replication can be demystified: it is activation of replication, the most ancient of cell programs, uncoupled from activation of lineage-differentiation, metazoan programs more recent in origin. The uncoupling can be physiologic, as in normal tissue stem cells, or pathologic, as in cancer. Neoplastic evolution selects to disengage replication from forward-differentiation where intrinsic replication rates are the highest, in committed progenitors that have division times measured in hours versus weeks for tissue stem cells, via partial loss of function in master transcription factors that activate terminal-differentiation programs (e.g., GATA4) or in the coactivators they use for this purpose (e.g., ARID1A). These loss-of-function mutations bias master transcription factor circuits, which normally regulate corepressor versus coactivator recruitment, toward corepressors (e.g., DNMT1) that repress rather than activate terminal-differentiation genes. Pharmacologic inhibition of the corepressors rebalances to coactivator function, activating lineage-differentiation genes that dominantly antagonize MYC (the master transcription factor coordinator of replication) to terminate malignant self-replication. Physiologic self-replication continues, because the master transcription factors in tissue stem cells activate stem cell, not terminal-differentiation, programs. Druggable corepressor proteins are thus the barriers between self-replicating cancer cells and the terminal-differentiation fates intended by their master transcription factor content. This final common pathway to oncogenic self-replication, being separate and distinct from the normal, offers the favorable therapeutic indices needed for clinical progress.	Nucleophosmin (NPM1) is among the most frequently mutated genes in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). It is not known, however, how the resulting oncoprotein mutant NPM1 is leukemogenic. To reveal the cellular machinery in which NPM1 participates in myeloid cells, we analyzed the endogenous NPM1 protein interactome by mass spectrometry and discovered abundant amounts of the master transcription factor driver of monocyte lineage differentiation PU.1 (also known as SPI1). Mutant NPM1, which aberrantly accumulates in cytoplasm, dislocated PU.1 into cytoplasm with it. CEBPA and RUNX1, the master transcription factors that collaborate with PU.1 to activate granulomonocytic lineage fates, remained nuclear; but without PU.1, their coregulator interactions were toggled from coactivators to corepressors, repressing instead of activating more than 500 granulocyte and monocyte terminal differentiation genes. An inhibitor of nuclear export, selinexor, by locking mutant NPM1/PU.1 in the nucleus, activated terminal monocytic fates. Direct depletion of the corepressor DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1) from the CEBPA/RUNX1 protein interactome using the clinical drug decitabine activated terminal granulocytic fates. Together, these noncytotoxic treatments extended survival by more than 160 days versus vehicle in a patient-derived xenotransplant model of NPM1/FLT3-mutated AML. In sum, mutant NPM1 represses monocyte and granulocyte terminal differentiation by disrupting PU.1/CEBPA/RUNX1 collaboration, a transforming action that can be reversed by pharmacodynamically directed dosing of clinical small molecules.	Pyoderma gangrenosum (PG) is a morbid necrotizing neutrophilic dermatoses for which current treatments are inadequate. Here, we describe the use of a novel noncytotoxic regimen of the deoxycytidine analog decitabine to treat underlying myeloid malignancy causing PG, to thereby produce safe and effective resolution of extensive PG.	Sickle cell disease (SCD), a congenital hemolytic anemia that exacts terrible global morbidity and mortality, is driven by polymerization of mutated sickle hemoglobin (HbS) in red blood cells (RBCs). Fetal hemoglobin (HbF) interferes with this polymerization, but HbF is epigenetically silenced from infancy onward by DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1). To pharmacologically re-induce HbF by DNMT1 inhibition, this first-in-human clinical trial (NCT01685515) combined 2 small molecules-decitabine to deplete DNMT1 and tetrahydrouridine (THU) to inhibit cytidine deaminase (CDA), the enzyme that otherwise rapidly deaminates/inactivates decitabine, severely limiting its half-life, tissue distribution, and oral bioavailability. Oral decitabine doses, administered after oral THU 10 mg/kg, were escalated from a very low starting level (0.01, 0.02, 0.04, 0.08, or 0.16 mg/kg) to identify minimal doses active in depleting DNMT1 without cytotoxicity. Patients were SCD adults at risk of early death despite standard-of-care, randomized 3:2 to THU-decitabine versus placebo in 5 cohorts of 5 patients treated 2X/week for 8 weeks, with 4 weeks of follow-up. The primary endpoint was ≥ grade 3 non-hematologic toxicity. This endpoint was not triggered, and adverse events (AEs) were not significantly different in THU-decitabine-versus placebo-treated patients. At the decitabine 0.16 mg/kg dose, plasma concentrations peaked at approximately 50 nM (Cmax) and remained elevated for several hours. This dose decreased DNMT1 protein in peripheral blood mononuclear cells by &gt;75% and repetitive element CpG methylation by approximately 10%, and increased HbF by 4%-9% (P &lt; 0.001), doubling fetal hemoglobin-enriched red blood cells (F-cells) up to approximately 80% of total RBCs. Total hemoglobin increased by 1.2-1.9 g/dL (P = 0.01) as reticulocytes simultaneously decreased; that is, better quality and efficiency of HbF-enriched erythropoiesis elevated hemoglobin using fewer reticulocytes. Also indicating better RBC quality, biomarkers of hemolysis, thrombophilia, and inflammation (LDH, bilirubin, D-dimer, C-reactive protein [CRP]) improved. As expected with non-cytotoxic DNMT1-depletion, platelets increased and neutrophils concurrently decreased, but not to an extent requiring treatment holds. As an early phase study, limitations include small patient numbers at each dose level and narrow capacity to evaluate clinical benefits. Administration of oral THU-decitabine to patients with SCD was safe in this study and, by targeting DNMT1, upregulated HbF in RBCs. Further studies should investigate clinical benefits and potential harms not identified to date. ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT01685515.	The most frequent chromosomal structural loss in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is of the short arm of chromosome 8 (8p). Genes on the remaining homologous chromosome, however, are not recurrently mutated, and the identity of key 8p tumor-suppressor genes (TSG) is unknown. In this work, analysis of minimal commonly deleted 8p segments to identify candidate TSG implicated GATA4, a master transcription factor driver of hepatocyte epithelial lineage fate. In a murine model, liver-conditional deletion of 1 Gata4 allele to model the haploinsufficiency seen in HCC produced enlarged livers with a gene expression profile of persistent precursor proliferation and failed hepatocyte epithelial differentiation. HCC mimicked this gene expression profile, even in cases that were morphologically classified as well differentiated. HCC with intact chromosome 8p also featured GATA4 loss of function via GATA4 germline mutations that abrogated GATA4 interactions with a coactivator, MED12, or by inactivating mutations directly in GATA4 coactivators, including ARID1A. GATA4 reintroduction into GATA4-haploinsufficient HCC cells or ARID1A reintroduction into ARID1A-mutant/GATA4-intact HCC cells activated hundreds of hepatocyte genes and quenched the proliferative precursor program. Thus, disruption of GATA4-mediated transactivation in HCC suppresses hepatocyte epithelial differentiation to sustain replicative precursor phenotype.	Tumor suppressor genes can be silenced genetically as well as epigenetically. One approach to reversing epigenetic suppression of tumor suppressor genes is to inhibit DNA methyl transferase. 5-aza-2',2'-diflurorodeoxycytidine (NUC013) is a novel DNA methyl transferase and ribonucleotide reductase inhibitor that is a more potent inhibitor of growth than decitabine in the NCI 60 cancer cell line panel. NUC013 is more active than decitabine against p53-null/mutant cancer cell lines (p = 0.027) but is even more so against p53 wild-type (WT) cell lines (p = 0.0025). The maximum tolerated dose in mice of NUC013 is greater than 120 mg/kg administered intravenously for three consecutive days a week for three weeks. With this regimen and a dose of 20 mg/kg in a human leukemia HL-60 (p53-null) NCr-nu/nu mouse xenograft model (n = 10/group), NUC013 demonstrated a survival benefit (saline median survival (MS) = 26.5 days, NUC013 MS = 32 days and hazard ratio (HR) = 0.26 (p = 0.032)). In a colon cancer LoVo (TP53 WT) xenograft, mice treated with decitabine at 5 mg/kg had worse survival than saline controls (decitabine MS = 31 days, saline MS &gt; 60 days and HR = 26.89 (p &lt; 0.0001)). At a dose of 20 mg/kg NUC013, mean tumor volume in the LoVo xenografts was lower than controls by 50.9% and at 40 mg/kg by 53.7% (both p &lt; 0.0001).	Searches for effective yet nontoxic oncotherapies are searches for exploitable differences between cancer and normal cells. In its core of cell division, cancer resembles normal life, coordinated by the master transcription factor MYC. Outside of this core, apoptosis and differentiation programs, which dominantly antagonize MYC to terminate cell division, necessarily differ between cancer and normal cells, as apoptosis is suppressed by biallelic inactivation of the master regulator of apoptosis, p53, or its cofactor p16/CDKN2A in approximately 80% of cancers. These genetic alterations impact therapy: conventional oncotherapy applies stress upstream of p53 to upregulate it and causes apoptosis (cytotoxicity)-a toxic, futile intent when it is absent or nonfunctional. Differentiation, on the other hand, cannot be completely suppressed because it is a continuum along which all cells exist. Neoplastic evolution stalls advances along this continuum at its most proliferative points-in lineage-committed progenitors that have division times measured in hours compared with weeks for tissue stem cells. This differentiation arrest is by mutations/deletions in differentiation-driving transcription factors or their coactivators that shift balances of gene-regulating protein complexes toward corepressors that repress instead of activate hundreds of terminal differentiation genes. That is, malignant proliferation without differentiation, also referred to as cancer &quot;stem&quot; cell self-renewal, hinges on druggable corepressors. Inhibiting these corepressors (e.g., DNMT1) releases p53-independent terminal differentiation in cancer stem cells but preserves self-renewal of normal stem cells that express stem cell transcription factors. Thus, epigenetic-differentiation therapies exploit a fundamental distinction between cancer and normal stem cell self-renewal and have a pathway of action downstream of genetic defects in cancer, affording favorable therapeutic indices needed for clinical progress.	NA	Cancer chemotherapy is typically toxic. This problem could be addressed by using differences between cancer and normal cells for controlled delivery of drugs to cancer cells. One such difference is the ubiquitously elevated glutathione expression in cancer cells. We report a simple and versatile synthesis of water-soluble gold nanoparticles passivated with amine-containing molecules, which allow for controlled drug release via ligand exchange with bio-available glutathione. Taking methotrexate-passivated gold nanoparticles (Au:MTX) as an example, drug delivery and controlled release via glutathione-mediated ligand exchange was evaluated. Furthermore, the possibility of using Au:MTX to improve therapeutic index in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) models was examined in vitro and in vivo. Au:MTX exhibited cancer selectivity in vitro. Au:MTX had an elevated potency toward an AML cell line THP-1 in a dosage range of 1-5 nM, and therefore an enhanced delivery of drug, whereas normal hematopoietic stem/progenitor cell (HSPC) growth was minimally affected by Au:MTX and MTX treatments within the same range of dosage. In vivo efficacy and safety of Au:MTX was evaluated in a murine xenotransplant model of primary human AML. Au:MTX treatment, compared to control groups including MTX-only and Au nanoparticle-only treatments, produced better leukemia suppression without added toxicity, indicating an enhanced therapeutic index.
Scheraga, Rachel	Inflammation and Immunity	28523001	26597012	27638903	26763235	25365224	25023647	23576879	NA	NA	NA	Ion channels/pumps are essential regulators of organ homeostasis and disease. In the present review, we discuss the role of the mechanosensitive cation channel, transient receptor potential vanilloid 4 (TRPV4), in cytokine secretion and pulmonary inflammatory diseases such as asthma, cystic fibrosis (CF), and acute lung injury/acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). TRPV4 has been shown to play a role in lung diseases associated with lung parenchymal stretch or stiffness. TRPV4 indirectly mediates hypotonicity-induced smooth muscle contraction and airway remodeling in asthma. Further, the literature suggests that in CF TRPV4 may improve ciliary beat frequency enhancing mucociliary clearance, while at the same time increasing pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion/lung tissue injury. Currently it is understood that the role of TRPV4 in immune cell function and associated lung tissue injury/ARDS may depend on the injury stimulus. Uncovering the downstream mechanisms of TRPV4 action in pulmonary inflammatory diseases is likely important to understanding disease pathogenesis and may lead to novel therapeutics.	Macrophage phagocytosis of particles and pathogens is an essential aspect of innate host defense. Phagocytic function requires cytoskeletal rearrangements that depend on the interaction between macrophage surface receptors, particulates/pathogens, and the extracellular matrix. In the present study we determine the role of a mechanosensitive ion channel, transient receptor potential vanilloid 4 (TRPV4), in integrating the LPS and matrix stiffness signals to control macrophage phenotypic change for host defense and resolution from lung injury. We demonstrate that active TRPV4 mediates LPS-stimulated murine macrophage phagocytosis of nonopsonized particles (Escherichia coli) in vitro and opsonized particles (IgG-coated latex beads) in vitro and in vivo in intact mice. Intriguingly, matrix stiffness in the range seen in inflamed or fibrotic lung is required to sensitize the TRPV4 channel to mediate the LPS-induced increment in macrophage phagocytosis. Furthermore, TRPV4 is required for the LPS induction of anti-inflammatory/proresolution cytokines. These findings suggest that signaling through TRPV4, triggered by changes in extracellular matrix stiffness, cooperates with LPS-induced signals to mediate macrophage phagocytic function and lung injury resolution. These mechanisms are likely to be important in regulating macrophage function in the context of pulmonary infection and fibrosis. 	We previously showed that coincident exposure to heat shock (HS; 42°C for 2 h) and TNF-α synergistically induces apoptosis in mouse lung epithelium. We extended this work by analyzing HS effects on human lung epithelial responses to clinically relevant injury. Cotreatment with TNF-α and HS induced little caspase-3 and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase cleavage in human small airway epithelial cells, A549 cells, and BEAS2B cells. Scratch wound closure rates almost doubled when A549 and BEAS2B cells and air-liquid interface cultures of human bronchial epithelial cells were heat shocked immediately after wounding. Microarray, qRT-PCR, and immunoblotting showed fibroblast growth factor 1 (FGF1) to be synergistically induced by HS and wounding. Enhanced FGF1 expression in HS/wounded A549 was blocked by inhibitors of p38 MAPK (SB203580) or HS factor (HSF)-1 (KNK-437) and in HSF1 knockout BEAS2B cells. PCR demonstrated FGF1 to be expressed from the two most distal promoters in wounded/HS cells. Wound closure in HS A549 and BEAS2B cells was reduced by FGF receptor-1/3 inhibition (SU-5402) or FGF1 depletion. Exogenous FGF1 accelerated A549 wound closure in the absence but not presence of HS. In the presence of exogenous FGF1, HS slowed wound closure, suggesting that it increases FGF1 expression but impairs FGF1-stimulated wound closure. Frozen sections from normal and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) lung were analyzed for FGF1 and HSP70 by immunofluorescence confocal microscopy and qRT-PCR. FGF1 and HSP70 mRNA levels were 7.5- and 5.9-fold higher in IPF than normal lung, and the proteins colocalized to fibroblastic foci in IPF lung. We conclude that HS signaling may have an important impact on gene expression contributing to lung injury, healing, and fibrosis.	Pro-fibrotic mesenchymal cells are known to be the key effector cells of fibroproliferative disease, but the specific matrix signals and the induced cellular responses that drive the fibrogenic phenotype remain to be elucidated. The key mediators of the fibroblast fibrogenic phenotype were characterized using a novel assay system that measures fibroblast behavior in response to actual normal and fibrotic lung tissue. Using this system, we demonstrate that normal lung promotes fibroblast motility and polarization, while fibrotic lung immobilizes the fibroblast and promotes myofibroblast differentiation. These context-specific phenotypes are surprisingly both mediated by myosin II. The role of myosin II is supported by the observation of an increase in myosin phosphorylation and a change in intracellular distribution in fibroblasts on fibrotic lung, as compared with normal lung. Moreover, loss of myosin II activity has opposing effects on protrusive activity in fibroblasts on normal and fibrotic lung. Loss of myosin II also selectively inhibits myofibroblast differentiation in fibroblasts on fibrotic lung. Importantly, these findings are recapitulated by varying the matrix stiffness of polyacrylamide gels in the range of normal and fibrotic lung tissue. Comparison of the effects of myosin inhibition on lung tissue with that of polyacrylamide gels suggests that matrix fiber organization drives the fibroblast phenotype under conditions of normal/soft lung, while matrix stiffness drives the phenotype under conditions of fibrotic/stiff lung. This work defines novel roles for myosin II as a key regulatory effector molecule of the pro-fibrotic phenotype, in response to biophysical properties of the matrix. 	Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a fatal fibrotic lung disorder with no effective medical treatments available. The generation of myofibroblasts, which are critical for fibrogenesis, requires both a mechanical signal and activated TGF-β; however, it is not clear how fibroblasts sense and transmit the mechanical signal(s) that promote differentiation into myofibroblasts. As transient receptor potential vanilloid 4 (TRPV4) channels are activated in response to changes in plasma membrane stretch/matrix stiffness, we investigated whether TRPV4 contributes to generation of myofibroblasts and/or experimental lung fibrosis. We determined that TRPV4 activity is upregulated in lung fibroblasts derived from patients with IPF. Moreover, TRPV4-deficient mice were protected from fibrosis. Furthermore, genetic ablation or pharmacological inhibition of TRPV4 function abrogated myofibroblast differentiation, which was restored by TRPV4 reintroduction. TRPV4 channel activity was elevated when cells were plated on matrices of increasing stiffness or on fibrotic lung tissue, and matrix stiffness-dependent myofibroblast differentiation was reduced in response to TRVP4 inhibition. TRPV4 activity modulated TGF-β1-dependent actions in a SMAD-independent manner, enhanced actomyosin remodeling, and increased nuclear translocation of the α-SMA transcription coactivator (MRTF-A). Together, these data indicate that TRPV4 activity mediates pulmonary fibrogenesis and suggest that manipulation of TRPV4 channel activity has potential as a therapeutic approach for fibrotic diseases. 	The stress-activated transcription factor, heat shock factor-1 (HSF1), regulates many genes including cytoprotective heat shock proteins (HSPs). We hypothesized that polymorphisms in HSF1 may alter the level or function of HSF1 protein accounting for interindividual viability in disease susceptibility or prognosis. We searched for exomic variants in HSF1 by querying human genome databases and directly sequencing DNA from 80 anonymous genomic DNA samples. Overall, HSF1 sequence was highly conserved, with no common variations. We found 31 validated deviations from a reference sequence in the dbSNP database and an additional 5 novel variants by sequencing, with allele frequencies that were 0.06 or less. Of these 36, 2 were in 5'-untranslated region (5'UTR), 10 in 3'UTR, and 24 in the coding region. The potential effects of 5'UTR on secondary structure, protein structure/function, and 3'UTR targets of microRNAs were analyzed using RNAFold, PolyPhen-2, SIFT, and MicroSNiper. One of the 5'UTR variants was predicted to strengthen secondary structure. Eight of 3'UTR variants were predicted to modify microRNA target sequences. Eight of the coding region variants were predicted to modify HSF1 structure/function. Reducing HSF1 levels in A549 cells using short hairpin RNA (shRNA) increased sensitivity to heat-induced killing demonstrating the impact that genetic variants that reduce HSF1 levels might have. Using the pmirGLO expression system, we found that the wild-type HSF1 3'UTR suppressed translation of a firefly luciferase reporter plasmid by 65 %. Introducing two of four 3'UTR single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) increased HSF1 3'UTR translational suppression by 27-44 % compared with the wild-type HSF1 3'UTR sequence while a third SNP reduced suppression by 25 %. HSF1 variants may alter HSF1 protein levels or function with potential effects on cell functions, including sensitivity to stress. 	Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a fatal lung disease with no known effective therapy. It is often assumed, but has not been objectively evaluated, that pulmonary inflammation subsides as IPF progresses. The goal of this work was to assess changes in the degree of inflammatory cell infiltration, particularly lymphocytic infiltration, over the duration of illness in IPF. Sixteen patients with confirmed IPF were identified in patients whom surgical lung biopsy (SLB) was performed in early disease, and in patients whom lung transplantation was subsequently performed in end stage disease. A numerical scoring system was used to histologically quantify the amount of fibrosis, honeycomb change, fibroblastic foci, and lymphocyte aggregates in each SLB and lung explant tissue sample. Analyses of quantitative scores were performed by comparing paired, matched samples of SLB to lung explant tissue. Median time [1st, 3rd quartiles] from SLB to lung transplantation was 24 [15, 29] months. Histologic fibrosis and honeycomb change were more pronounced in the explant samples compared with SLB (P &lt; 0.001 and P &lt; 0.01, respectively), and most notably, higher numbers of lymphocyte aggregates were observed in the explant samples compared to SLB (P = 0.013). Immunohistochemical analyses revealed abundant CD3+ (T lymphocyte) and CD20+ (B lymphocyte) cells, but not CD68+ (macrophage) cells, within the aggregates. Contrary to the frequent assumption, lymphocyte aggregates were present in greater numbers in advanced disease (explant tissue) compared to early disease (surgical lung biopsy). This finding suggests that active cellular inflammation continues in IPF even in severe end stage disease.	NA	NA	NA
Schold, Jesse	Quantitative Health Sciences	31090645	31027881	30973413	30019832	30006419	29945482	29805957	29525324	29316241	28611123	Organ allocation is a highly complex process with significant impact on outcomes of donor organs and end-stage organ disease patients. Policies governing allocation must incorporate numerous factors to meet stated objective. There have been significant alterations and ongoing discussion about changes in allocation policy for all solid organs in the United States. As with any policy change, rigorous evaluation of the impact of changes is important. This manuscript discusses metrics to consider to evaluate the impact of organ allocation policy that may be monitored on an ongoing basis including examples of research evaluating current policies. Potential metrics to evaluate allocation policy include the effectiveness, efficiency, equity, costs, donor rates, and transparency associated with the system. Ultimately, policies will often need to adapt to secular changes in donor and patient characteristics, clinical and technological advances, and overarching healthcare polices. Providing objective empirical evaluation of the impact of policies is a critical component for assessing quality of the allocation system and informing the effect of changes. The foundation of organ transplantation is built upon public trust and the dependence on the gift of donor organs, as such the importance of the most appropriate organ allocation policies cannot be overstated.	Quality metrics have a long history in the field of kidney transplantation. These metrics are highly visible, with significant ramifications to transplantation centers based on their use in regulatory review and other stakeholders. In this perspective, we review the history of quality metrics in this field, discuss the perceptions and empirical evidence evaluating the impact of metrics on care delivery, and summarize the current landscape of quality oversight. Based on the research findings and opinions of the transplantation community, we suggest that significant reforms are needed for the evaluation of quality in the field based on more appropriately aligning metrics with optimizing patient outcomes. Moreover, there are vast potential uses of the current data that should be emphasized in a learning environment rather than a highly punitive system. In our view, these reforms would enhance care delivery, improve patient care, and better align incentives for providers of care that treat transplantation patients.	Over recent decades, numerous clinical advances and policy changes have affected outcomes for candidates of kidney transplantation in the United States. We examined the national Scientific Registry for Transplant Recipients for adult (18+) solitary kidney transplant candidates placed on the waiting list for primary listing from 2001 to 2015. We evaluated rates of mortality, transplantation, and waitlist removal. Among 340 115 candidates there were significant declines in mortality (52 deaths/1000 patient years in 2001-04 vs 38 deaths/1000 patient years in 2012-15) and transplant rates (304 transplants/1000 patient years in 2001-04 vs 212 transplants/1000 patient years in 2012-15) and increases in waitlist removals (15 removals/1000 patient years in 2001-04 vs 25/1000 patient years in 2012-15) within the first year after listing. At 5 years an estimated 37% of candidates listed in 2012-15 were alive without transplant as compared to 22% in 2001-04. Declines in mortality over time were significantly more pronounced among African Americans, candidates with longer dialysis duration, and those with diabetes (P &lt; .001). Cumulatively, results indicate dramatic changes in prognoses for adult kidney transplant candidates, likely impacted by selection criteria, donor availability, regulatory oversight, and clinical care. These trends are important considerations for prospective policy development and research, clinical and patient decision-making, and evaluating the impact on access to care.	The process for evaluating kidney transplant candidates and applicable centers is distinct for patients with Veterans Administration (VA) coverage. We compared transplant rates between candidates on the kidney waiting list with VA coverage and those with other primary insurance. Using the Scientific Registry of Transplant Recipients database, we obtained data for all adult patients in the United States listed for a primary solitary kidney transplant between January 2004 and August 2016. Of 302,457 patients analyzed, 3663 had VA primary insurance coverage. VA patients had a much greater median distance to their transplant center than those with other insurance had (282 versus 22 miles). In an adjusted Cox model, compared with private pay and Medicare patients, VA patients had a hazard ratio (95% confidence interval) for time to transplant of 0.72 (0.68 to 0.76) and 0.85 (0.81 to 0.90), respectively, and lower rates for living and deceased donor transplants. In a model comparing VA transplant rates with rates from four local non-VA competing centers in the same donor service areas, lower transplant rates for VA patients than for privately insured patients persisted (hazard ratio, 0.72; 95% confidence interval, 0.65 to 0.79) despite similar adjusted mortality rates. Transplant rates for VA patients were similar to those of Medicare patients locally, although Medicare patients were more likely to die or be delisted after waitlist placement. After successful listing, VA kidney transplant candidates appear to have persistent barriers to transplant. Further contemporary analyses are needed to account for variables that contribute to such differential transplant rates.	Recipient travel distance may be an unrecognized burden in lung transplantation. Retrospective single-center cohort study of all adult (≥18 years) first-time lung-only transplants from January 1, 2010, until February 28, 2017. Recipient distance to transplant center was calculated using the linear distance from the recipient's home zip code to the Cleveland Clinic in Cleveland, Ohio. 569 recipients met inclusion criteria. Posttransplant graft survival was 85%, 88%, 91%, and 91% at 1 year and 49%, 52%, 57%, and 56% at 5 years posttransplant for recipient travel distances of ≤50, &gt;50 to ≤250, &gt;250 to ≤500, and &gt;500 miles, respectively ( P = .10). We found no significant relationship between recipient travel distance and posttransplant graft survival. In carefully selected recipients, travel distance is not a significant barrier to successful posttransplant outcomes which may be important for patient decision-making and donor allocation policy. These data should be validated in a national cohort.	This paper describes the background, rationale, and design of an NIH-funded, single-center study to test the impact of offering reimbursement for donor lost wages incurred during the post-nephrectomy recovery period on the live donor kidney transplant (LDKT) rate in newly evaluated kidney transplant candidates, to examine whether offering reimbursement for donor lost wages reduces racial disparity in LDKT rates, and to determine whether higher reimbursement amounts lead to higher LDKT rates. LDKT is the optimal treatment for renal failure. However, living kidney donation has declined in the past decade, particularly among men, younger adults, blacks, and low-income adults. There is evidence that donation-related costs may deter both transplant candidates and potential donors from considering LDKT. Lost wages is a major source of financial loss for some living donors and, unlike travel and lodging expenses, is not reimbursed by financial assistance programs. The study addresses the transplant community's call to reduce the financial burden of living donation and examine its impact on LDKT rates. Findings have the potential to influence policy, clinical practice, LDKT access, and income-related and racial disparities in LDKT and living donation.	The effects of underlying noncodified risks are unclear on the prognosis of patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). We aimed to evaluate the association of residential area life expectancy with outcomes and processes of care for patients with ESRD in the United States. Retrospective cohort study. Adult patients with incident ESRD between 2006 and 2013 recorded in the US Renal Data System (n=606,046). The primary exposure was life expectancy in the patient's residential county estimated by the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation. Death, placement on the kidney transplant wait list, living and deceased donor kidney transplantation, and posttransplantation graft loss. Median life expectancies of patients' residences were 75.6 (males) and 80.4 years (females). Compared to the highest life expectancy quintile and adjusted for demographic factors, disease cause, and multiple comorbid conditions, the lowest quintile had adjusted HRs for mortality of 1.20 (95% CI, 1.18-1.22); placement onto the waiting list, 0.68 (95% CI, 0.67-0.70); living donor transplantation, 0.53 (95% CI, 0.51-0.56); posttransplantation graft loss, 1.35 (95% CI, 1.27-1.43); and posttransplantation mortality, 1.29 (95% CI, 1.19-1.39). Patients living in areas with lower life expectancy were less likely to be informed about transplantation, be under the care of a nephrologist, or receive an arteriovenous fistula as the initial dialysis access. Results remained consistent with additional adjustment for zip code-level median income, population size, and urban-rural locality. Potential residual confounding and attribution of effects to individuals based on residential area-level data. Residential area life expectancy, a proxy for socioeconomic, environmental, genetic, and behavioral factors, was independently associated with mortality and process-of-care measures for patients with ESRD. These results emphasize the underlying effect on health outcomes of the environment in which patients live, independent of patient-level factors. These findings may have implications for provider assessments.	Outcomes of patients receiving solid organ transplants in the United States are systematically aggregated into bi-annual Program-Specific Reports (PSRs) detailing risk-adjusted survival by transplant center. Recently, the Scientific Registry of Transplant Recipients (SRTR) issued 5-tier ratings evaluating centers based on risk-adjusted 1-year graft survival. Our primary aim was to examine the reliability of 5-tier ratings over time. Using 10 consecutive PSRs for adult kidney transplant centers from June 2012 to December 2016 (n = 208), we applied 5-tier ratings to center outcomes and evaluated ratings over time. From the baseline period (June 2012), 47% of centers had at least a 1-unit tier change within 6 months, 66% by 1 year, and 94% by 3 years. Similarly, 46% of centers had at least a 2-unit tier change by 3 years. In comparison, 15% of centers had a change in the traditional 3-tier rating at 3 years. The 5-tier ratings at 4 years had minimal association with baseline rating (Kappa 0.07, 95% confidence interval [CI] -0.002 to 0.158). Centers had a median of 3 different 5-tier ratings over the period (q1 = 2, q3 = 4). Findings were consistent for center volume, transplant rate, and baseline 5-tier rating. Cumulatively, results suggest that 5-tier ratings are highly volatile, limiting their utility for informing potential stakeholders, particularly transplant candidates given expected waiting times between wait listing and transplantation.	There are sex differences in mortality while awaiting heart transplantation, and the reason remains unclear. We included all adults in the Scientific Registry of Transplant Recipients placed on the heart transplant active waitlist from 2004 to 2015. The primary end point was all-cause mortality. Multivariable Cox proportional hazards models were performed to evaluate survival by United Network for Organ Sharing (UNOS) status at the time of listing. Random survival forest was used to identify sex interactions for the competing risk of death and transplantation. There were 33 069 patients (25% women) awaiting heart transplantation. This cohort included 7681 UNOS status 1A (26% women), 13 027 UNOS status 1B (25% women), and 12 361 UNOS status 2 (26% women). During a median follow-up of 4.3 months, 1351 women and 4052 men died. After adjusting for &gt;20 risk factors, female sex was associated with a significant risk of death among UNOS status 1A (adjusted hazard ratio, 1.14; 95% confidence interval, 1.01-1.29) and UNOS status 1B (adjusted hazard ratio, 1.17; 95% confidence interval, 1.05-1.30). In contrast, female sex was significantly protective for time to death among UNOS status 2 (adjusted hazard ratio, 0.85; 95% confidence interval, 0.76-0.95). Sex differences in probability of transplantation were present for every UNOS status, and &gt;20 sex interactions were identified for mortality and transplantation. When stratified by initial UNOS status, women had a higher mortality than men as UNOS status 1 and a lower mortality as UNOS status 2. With &gt;20 sex interactions for mortality and transplantation, further evaluation is warranted to form a more equitable allocation system.	NA
Schumaker-Bass, Sarah	Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences	30259192	30175279	28328744	27016525	25739765	24508725	24839449	20156596	19443837	17673464	Proinflammatory cytokines are consistently elevated in congestive heart failure. In the current review, we provide an overview on the current understanding of how tumor necrosis factor-α (TNFα), a key proinflammatory cytokine, potentiates heart failure by overwhelming the anti-inflammatory responses disrupting the homeostasis. Studies have shown co-relationship between severity of heart failure and levels of the proinflammatory cytokine TNFα and one of its secondary mediators interleukin-6 (IL-6), suggesting their potential as biomarkers. Recent efforts have focused on understanding the mechanisms of how proinflammatory cytokines contribute towards cardiac dysfunction and failure. In addition, how unchecked proinflammatory cytokines and their cross-talk with sympathetic system overrides the anti-inflammatory response underlying failure. The review offers insights on how TNFα and IL-6 contribute to cardiac dysfunction and failure. Furthermore, this provides a forum to begin the discussion on the cross-talk between sympathetic drive and proinflammatory cytokines and its determinant role in deleterious outcomes.	The new horizon for cardiac therapy may lie beneath the surface, with the downstream mediators of G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) activity. Targeted approaches have shown that receptor activation may be biased toward signaling through G proteins or through GPCR kinases (GRKs) and β-arrestins, with divergent functional outcomes. In addition to these canonical roles, numerous noncanonical activities of GRKs and β-arrestins have been demonstrated to modulate GPCR signaling at all levels of receptor activation and regulation. Further, research continues to identify novel GRK/effector and β-arrestin/effector complexes with distinct impacts on cardiac function in the normal heart and the diseased heart. Coupled with the identification of once orphan receptors and endogenous ligands with beneficial cardiovascular effects, this expands the repertoire of GPCR targets. Together, this research highlights the potential for focused therapeutic activation of beneficial pathways, with simultaneous exclusion or inhibition of detrimental signaling, and represents a new wave of therapeutic development.	G protein-coupled receptor kinases (GRKs) are classically known for their role in regulating the activity of the largest known class of membrane receptors, which influence diverse biological processes in every cell type in the human body. As researchers have tried to uncover how this family of kinases, containing only 7 members, achieves selective and coordinated control of receptors, they have uncovered a growing number of noncanonical activities for these kinases. These activities include phosphorylation of nonreceptor targets and kinase-independent molecular interactions. In particular, GRK2, GRK3, and GRK5 are the predominant members expressed in the heart. Their canonical and noncanonical actions within cardiac and other tissues have significant implications for cardiovascular function in healthy animals and for the development and progression of disease. This review summarizes what is currently known regarding the activity of these kinases, and particularly the role of GRK2 and GRK5 in the molecular alterations that occur during heart failure. This review further highlights areas of GRK regulation that remain poorly understood and how they may represent novel targets for therapeutic development.	G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) kinases (GRKs) play a critical role in cardiac function by regulating GPCR activity. GRK2 suppresses GPCR signaling by phosphorylating and desensitizing active GPCRs, and through protein-protein interactions that uncouple GPCRs from their downstream effectors. Several GRK2 interacting partners, including Gα(q), promote maladaptive cardiac hypertrophy, which leads to heart failure, a leading cause of mortality worldwide. The regulator of G protein signaling (RGS) domain of GRK2 interacts with and inhibits Gα(q) in vitro. We generated TgβARKrgs mice with cardiac-specific expression of the RGS domain of GRK2 and subjected these mice to pressure overload to trigger adaptive changes that lead to heart failure. Unlike their nontransgenic littermate controls, the TgβARKrgs mice exhibited less hypertrophy as indicated by reduced left ventricular wall thickness, decreased expression of genes linked to cardiac hypertrophy, and less adverse structural remodeling. The βARKrgs peptide, but not endogenous GRK2, interacted with Gα(q) and interfered with signaling through this G protein. These data support the development of GRK2-based therapeutic approaches to prevent hypertrophy and heart failure.	Heart failure (HF) is a disease of epidemic proportion and is associated with exceedingly high health care costs. G protein (heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide-binding protein)-coupled receptor (GPCR) kinase 2 (GRK2), which is up-regulated in the failing human heart, appears to play a critical role in HF progression in part because enhanced GRK2 activity promotes dysfunctional adrenergic signaling and myocyte death. Recently, we found that the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) paroxetine could inhibit GRK2 with selectivity over other GRKs. Wild-type mice were treated for 4 weeks with paroxetine starting at 2 weeks after myocardial infarction (MI). These mice were compared with mice treated with fluoxetine, which does not inhibit GRK2, to control for the SSRI effects of paroxetine. All mice exhibited similar left ventricular (LV) dysfunction before treatment; however, although the control and fluoxetine groups had continued degradation of function, the paroxetine group had considerably improved LV function and structure, and several hallmarks of HF were either inhibited or reversed. Use of genetically engineered mice indicated that paroxetine was working through GRK2 inhibition. The beneficial effects of paroxetine were markedly greater than those of β-blocker therapy, a current standard of care in human HF. These data demonstrate that paroxetine-mediated inhibition of GRK2 improves cardiac function after MI and represents a potential repurposing of this drug, as well as a starting point for innovative small-molecule GRK2 inhibitor development. 	Kv1.5 (KCNA5) mediates the ultra-rapid delayed rectifier current that controls atrial action potential duration. Given its atrial-specific expression and alterations in human atrial fibrillation, Kv1.5 has emerged as a promising target for the treatment of atrial fibrillation. A necessary step in the development of novel agents that selectively modulate trafficking pathways is the identification of the cellular machinery controlling Kv1.5 surface density, of which little is yet known. To investigate the role of the unconventional myosin-V (MYO5A and MYO5B) motors in determining the cell surface density of Kv1.5. Western blot analysis showed MYO5A and MYO5B expression in the heart, whereas disruption of endogenous motors selectively reduced IKur current in adult rat cardiomyocytes. Dominant negative constructs and short hairpin RNA silencing demonstrated a role for MYO5A and MYO5B in the surface trafficking of Kv1.5 and connexin-43 but not potassium voltage-gated channel, subfamily H (eag-related), member 2 (KCNH2). Live-cell imaging of Kv1.5-GFP and retrospective labeling of phalloidin demonstrated motility of Kv1.5 vesicles on actin tracts. MYO5A participated in anterograde trafficking, whereas MYO5B regulated postendocytic recycling. Overexpression of mutant motors revealed a selective role for Rab11 in coupling MYO5B to Kv1.5 recycling. MYO5A and MYO5B control functionally distinct steps in the surface trafficking of Kv1.5. These isoform-specific trafficking pathways determine Kv1.5-encoded IKur in myocytes to regulate repolarizing current and, consequently, cardiac excitability. Therapeutic strategies that manipulate Kv1.5 selective trafficking pathways may prove useful in the treatment of arrhythmias.	An ever-increasing number of people world-wide are developing and suffering from heart failure, and existing therapies, although improved are not ideal. Therefore, innovative treatment strategies are urgently needed. As our understanding of the underlying dysfunction of the myocardium increases, so does our ability to target the mechanisms responsible for heart failure progression. In this review we discuss novel molecular therapies and approaches for the treatment of heart failure. We will focus on the G protein-coupled receptor kinase GRK2, an increasing target for heart failure therapy, based on its important role in disease progression and the therapeutic potential of GRK2 inhibitors.	Atrial fibrillation (AF) is a common cardiac arrhythmia with potentially life-threatening complications. Drug therapies for treatment of AF that seek long-term maintenance of normal sinus rhythm remain elusive due in large part to proarrhythmic ventricular actions. Kv1.5, which underlies the atrial specific I(Kur) current, is a major focus of research efforts seeking new therapeutic strategies and targets. Recent work has shown a novel effect of antiarrhythmic drugs where compounds that block Kv1.5 channel current also can alter ion channel trafficking. This work further suggests that the pleiotropic effects of antiarrhythmic drugs may be separable. Although this finding highlights the therapeutic potential for selective manipulation of ion channel surface density, it also reveals an uncertainty regarding the specificity of modulating trafficking pathways without risk of off-target effects. Future studies may show that specific alteration of Kv1.5 trafficking can overcome the proarrhythmic limitations of current pharmacotherapy and provide an effective method for long-term cardioversion in AF.	Conventional antiarrhythmic drugs target the ion permeability of channels, but increasing evidence suggests that functional ion channel density can also be modified pharmacologically. Kv1.5 mediates the ultrarapid potassium current (I(Kur)) that controls atrial action potential duration. Given the atrial-specific expression of Kv1.5 and its alterations in human atrial fibrillation, significant effort has been made to identify novel channel blockers. In this study, treatment of HL-1 atrial myocytes expressing Kv1.5-GFP with the class I antiarrhythmic agent quinidine resulted in a dose- and temperature-dependent internalization of Kv1.5, concomitant with channel block. This quinidine-induced channel internalization was confirmed in acutely dissociated neonatal myocytes. Channel internalization was subunit-dependent, activity-independent, stereospecific, and blocked by pharmacological disruption of the endocytic machinery. Pore block and channel internalization partially overlap in the structural requirements for drug binding. Surprisingly, quinidine-induced endocytosis was calcium-dependent and therefore unrecognized by previous biophysical studies focused on isolating channel-drug interactions. Importantly, whereas acute quinidine-induced internalization was reversible, chronic treatment led to channel degradation. Together, these data reveal a novel mechanism of antiarrhythmic drug action and highlight the possibility for new agents that selectively modulate the stability of channel protein in the membrane as an approach for treating cardiac arrhythmias.	The number of ion channels expressed on the cell surface shapes the complex electrical response of excitable cells. Maintaining a balance between anterograde and retrograde trafficking of channel proteins is vital in regulating steady-state cell surface expression. Kv1.5 is an important voltage-gated K(+) channel in the cardiovascular system underlying the ultra-rapid rectifying potassium current (Ik(ur)), a major repolarizing current in atrial myocytes, and regulating the resting membrane potential and excitability of smooth muscle cells. Defects in the expression of Kv1.5 are associated with pathological states such as chronic atrial fibrillation and hypoxic pulmonary hypertension. There is, thus, substantial interest in understanding the mechanisms regulating cell surface channel levels. Here, we investigated the internalization and recycling of Kv1.5 in the HL-1 immortalized mouse atrial myocytes. Kinetic studies indicate that Kv1.5 is rapidly internalized to a perinuclear region where it co-localizes with the early endosomal marker, EEA1. Importantly, we identified that a population of Kv1.5, originating on the cell surface, internalized and recycled back to the plasma membrane. Notably, Kv1.5 recycling processes are driven by specific Rab-dependent endosomal compartments. Thus, co-expression of GDP-locked Rab4S22N and Rab11S25N dominant-negative mutants decreased the steady-state Kv1.5 surface levels, whereas GTPase-deficient Rab4Q67L and Rab11Q70L mutants increased steady-state Kv1.5 surface levels. These data reveal an unexpected dynamic trafficking of Kv1.5 at the myocyte plasma membrane and demonstrate a role for recycling in the maintenance of steady-state ion channel surface levels.
Scott, Jacob	Translational Hematology and Oncology Research	30778184	30659188	30385313	29786861	29736596	28450729	26360300	29315173	28982791	29733909	Heterogeneity in strategies for survival and proliferation among the cells that constitute a tumour is a driving force behind the evolution of resistance to cancer therapy. The rules mapping the tumour's strategy distribution to the fitness of individual strategies can be represented as an evolutionary game. We develop a game assay to measure effective evolutionary games in co-cultures of non-small cell lung cancer cells that are sensitive and resistant to the anaplastic lymphoma kinase inhibitor alectinib. The games are not only quantitatively different between different environments, but targeted therapy and cancer-associated fibroblasts qualitatively switch the type of game being played by the in vitro population from Leader to Deadlock. This observation provides empirical confirmation of a central theoretical postulate of evolutionary game theory in oncology: we can treat not only the player, but also the game. Although we concentrate on measuring games played by cancer cells, the measurement methodology we develop can be used to advance the study of games in other microscopic systems by providing a quantitative description of non-cell-autonomous effects.	Antibiotic resistance represents a growing health crisis that necessitates the immediate discovery of novel treatment strategies. One such strategy is the identification of collateral sensitivities, wherein evolution under a first drug induces susceptibility to a second. Here, we report that sequential drug regimens derived from in vitro evolution experiments may have overstated therapeutic benefit, predicting a collaterally sensitive response where cross-resistance ultimately occurs. We quantify the likelihood of this phenomenon by use of a mathematical model parametrised with combinatorially complete fitness landscapes for Escherichia coli. Through experimental evolution we then verify that a second drug can indeed stochastically exhibit either increased susceptibility or increased resistance when following a first. Genetic divergence is confirmed as the driver of this differential response through targeted and whole genome sequencing. Taken together, these results highlight that the success of evolutionarily-informed therapies is predicated on a rigorous probabilistic understanding of the contingencies that arise during the evolution of drug resistance.	Oscillations are crucial to the normal function of living organisms, across a wide variety of biological processes. In eukaryotes, oscillatory dynamics are thought to arise from interactions at the protein and RNA levels; however, the role of non-coding RNA in regulating these dynamics remains understudied. In this work, we show how non-coding RNA acting as microRNA (miRNA) sponges in a conserved miRNA - transcription factor feedback motif, can give rise to oscillatory behaviour, and how to test for this experimentally. Control of these non-coding RNA can dynamically create oscillations or stability, and we show how this behaviour predisposes to oscillations in the stochastic limit. These results, supported by emerging evidence for the role of miRNA sponges in development, point towards key roles of different species of miRNA sponges, such as circular RNA, potentially in the maintenance of yet unexplained oscillatory behaviour. These results help to provide a paradigm for understanding functional differences between the many redundant, but distinct RNA species thought to act as miRNA sponges in nature, such as long non-coding RNA, pseudogenes, competing mRNA, circular RNA, and3' UTRs.	Intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) has allowed optimization of three-dimensional spatial radiation dose distributions permitting target coverage while reducing normal tissue toxicity. However, radiation-induced normal tissue toxicity is a major contributor to patients' quality of life and often a dose-limiting factor in the definitive treatment of cancer with radiation therapy. We propose the next logical step in the evolution of IMRT using canonical radiobiological principles, optimizing the temporal dimension through which radiation therapy is delivered to further reduce radiation-induced toxicity by increased time for normal tissue recovery. We term this novel treatment planning strategy &quot;temporally feathered radiation therapy&quot; (TFRT). Temporally feathered radiotherapy plans were generated as a composite of five simulated treatment plans each with altered constraints on particular hypothetical organs at risk (OARs) to be delivered sequentially. For each of these TFRT plans, OARs chosen for feathering receive higher doses while the remaining OARs receive lower doses than the standard fractional dose delivered in a conventional fractionated IMRT plan. Each TFRT plan is delivered a specific weekday, which in effect leads to a higher dose once weekly followed by four lower fractional doses to each temporally feathered OAR. We compared normal tissue toxicity between TFRT and conventional fractionated IMRT plans by using a dynamical mathematical model to describe radiation-induced tissue damage and repair over time. Model-based simulations of TFRT demonstrated potential for reduced normal tissue toxicity compared to conventionally planned IMRT. The sequencing of high and low fractional doses delivered to OARs by TFRT plans suggested increased normal tissue recovery, and hence less overall radiation-induced toxicity, despite higher total doses delivered to OARs compared to conventional fractionated IMRT plans. The magnitude of toxicity reduction by TFRT planning was found to depend on the corresponding standard fractional dose of IMRT and organ-specific recovery rate of sublethal radiation-induced damage. TFRT is a novel technique for treatment planning and optimization of therapeutic radiotherapy that considers the nonlinear aspects of normal tissue repair to optimize toxicity profiles. Model-based simulations of TFRT to carefully conceptualized clinical cases have demonstrated potential for radiation-induced toxicity reduction in a previously described dynamical model of normal tissue complication probability (NTCP).	Despite major strides in the treatment of cancer, the development of drug resistance remains a major hurdle. One strategy which has been proposed to address this is the sequential application of drug therapies where resistance to one drug induces sensitivity to another drug, a concept called collateral sensitivity. The optimal timing of drug switching in these situations, however, remains unknown. To study this, we developed a dynamical model of sequential therapy on heterogeneous tumors comprised of resistant and sensitive cells. A pair of drugs (DrugA, DrugB) are utilized and are periodically switched during therapy. Assuming resistant cells to one drug are collaterally sensitive to the opposing drug, we classified cancer cells into two groups, [Formula: see text] and [Formula: see text], each of which is a subpopulation of cells resistant to the indicated drug and concurrently sensitive to the other, and we subsequently explored the resulting population dynamics. Specifically, based on a system of ordinary differential equations for [Formula: see text] and [Formula: see text], we determined that the optimal treatment strategy consists of two stages: an initial stage in which a chosen effective drug is utilized until a specific time point, T, and a second stage in which drugs are switched repeatedly, during which each drug is used for a relative duration (i.e., [Formula: see text]-long for DrugA and [Formula: see text]-long for DrugB with [Formula: see text] and [Formula: see text]). We prove that the optimal duration of the initial stage, in which the first drug is administered, T, is shorter than the period in which it remains effective in decreasing the total population, contrary to current clinical intuition. We further analyzed the relationship between population makeup, [Formula: see text], and the effect of each drug. We determine a critical ratio, which we term [Formula: see text], at which the two drugs are equally effective. As the first stage of the optimal strategy is applied, [Formula: see text] changes monotonically to [Formula: see text] and then, during the second stage, remains at [Formula: see text] thereafter. Beyond our analytic results, we explored an individual-based stochastic model and presented the distribution of extinction times for the classes of solutions found. Taken together, our results suggest opportunities to improve therapy scheduling in clinical oncology.	Drug resistance remains an elusive problem in cancer therapy, particularly for novel targeted therapies. Much work is focused upon the development of an arsenal of targeted therapies, towards oncogenic driver genes such as ALK-EML4, to overcome the inevitable resistance that develops over time. Currently, after failure of first line ALK TKI therapy, another ALK TKI is administered, though collateral sensitivity is not considered. To address this, we evolved resistance in an ALK rearranged non-small cell lung cancer line (H3122) to a panel of 4 ALK TKIs, and performed a collateral sensitivity analysis. All ALK inhibitor resistant cell lines displayed significant cross-resistance to all other ALK inhibitors. We then evaluated ALK-inhibitor sensitivities after drug holidays of varying length (1-21 days), and observed dynamic patterns of resistance. This unpredictability led us to an expanded search for treatment options, where we tested 6 further anti-cancer agents for collateral sensitivity among resistant cells, uncovering possibilities for further treatment, including cross-sensitivity to standard cytotoxic therapies, as well as Hsp90 inhibitors. Taken together, these results imply that resistance to targeted therapy in non-small cell lung cancer is highly dynamic, and also one where there are many opportunities to re-establish sensitivities where there was once resistance. Drug resistance in cancer inevitably emerges during treatment; particularly with novel targeted therapies, designed to inhibit specific molecules. A clinically-relevant example of this phenomenon occurs in ALK-positive non-small cell lung cancer, where targeted therapies are used to inhibit the ALK-EML4 fusion protein. A potential solution to this may lie in finding drug sensitivities in the resistant population, termed collateral sensitivities, and then using these as second-line agents. This study shows how the evolution of resistance in ALK-positive lung cancer is a dynamic process through time, one in which patterns of drug resistance and collateral sensitivity change substantially, and therefore one where temporal regimens, such as drug cycling and drug holidays may have great benefit.	The increasing rate of antibiotic resistance and slowing discovery of novel antibiotic treatments presents a growing threat to public health. Here, we consider a simple model of evolution in asexually reproducing populations which considers adaptation as a biased random walk on a fitness landscape. This model associates the global properties of the fitness landscape with the algebraic properties of a Markov chain transition matrix and allows us to derive general results on the non-commutativity and irreversibility of natural selection as well as antibiotic cycling strategies. Using this formalism, we analyze 15 empirical fitness landscapes of E. coli under selection by different β-lactam antibiotics and demonstrate that the emergence of resistance to a given antibiotic can be either hindered or promoted by different sequences of drug application. Specifically, we demonstrate that the majority, approximately 70%, of sequential drug treatments with 2-4 drugs promote resistance to the final antibiotic. Further, we derive optimal drug application sequences with which we can probabilistically 'steer' the population through genotype space to avoid the emergence of resistance. This suggests a new strategy in the war against antibiotic-resistant organisms: drug sequencing to shepherd evolution through genotype space to states from which resistance cannot emerge and by which to maximize the chance of successful therapy. 	To identify the rates of acute and chronic wound complications and factors associated in a cohort of patients treated for soft tissue sarcoma (STS) with modern radiotherapy (RT) and surgical techniques. An Institutional Review Board-approved database was used to identify all adult nonmetastatic patients treated for STS at a single institution between 2006 and 2015 with a minimum follow-up of 1 year. Factors associated with acute and chronic wound complications were analyzed using binomial logistic regression including interaction terms. In all, 271 patients were identified with a median follow-up of 3.2 years. The rate of acute wound complications was 22.1%. On univariate analysis, trunk versus extremity location (P&lt;0.001), radiation therapy (P=0.04), and preoperative therapy (P=0.03) were associated with acute wound complications and a trend was noted for reconstruction (P=0.07). On multivariate analysis, extremity tumors were associated with a higher rate of acute wound complications compared with trunk tumors without RT (P=0.02). Utilization of RT was associated with increased risk for extremity tumors (P=0.07). The rate of chronic wound complications was 3.3%. Radiation was associated with increased chronic wound complications (P=0.03) and trends were noted for trunk versus extremity location (P=0.08) and a history of acute wound complications (P=0.12). Several factors associated with acute and chronic wound complications were identified in STS patients including timing of RT, tumor site, and reconstruction use. The development of acute wound complications may also be associated with an increased risk of chronic wound complications.	Radiomics describes a broad set of computational methods that extract quantitative features from radiographic images. The resulting features can be used to inform imaging diagnosis, prognosis, and therapy response in oncology. However, major challenges remain for methodologic developments to optimize feature extraction and provide rapid information flow in clinical settings. Equally important, to be clinically useful, predictive radiomic properties must be clearly linked to meaningful biologic characteristics and qualitative imaging properties familiar to radiologists. Here we use a cross-disciplinary approach to highlight studies in radiomics. We review brain tumor radiologic studies (eg, imaging interpretation) through computational models (eg, computer vision and machine learning) that provide novel clinical insights. We outline current quantitative image feature extraction and prediction strategies with different levels of available clinical classes for supporting clinical decision-making. We further discuss machine-learning challenges and data opportunities to advance radiomic studies.	We assessed the radiosensitivity of lung metastases on the basis of primary histologic type by using a validated gene signature and model lung metastases for the gnomically adjusted radiation dose (GARD). Tissue samples were identified from our prospective observational protocol. The radiosensitivity index (RSI) 10-gene assay was run on samples and calculated alongside the GARD by using the previously published algorithms. A cohort of 105 patients with 137 lung metastases treated with stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) at our institution was used for clinical correlation. A total of 138 unique metastatic lung lesions from our institution's tissue biorepository were identified for inclusion. There were significant differences in the RSI of lung metastases on the basis of histology. In order of decreasing radioresistance, the median RSIs for the various histologic types of cancer were endometrial adenocarcinoma (0.49), soft-tissue sarcoma (0.47), melanoma (0.44), rectal adenocarcinoma (0.43), renal cell carcinoma (0.33), head and neck squamous cell cancer (0.33), colon adenocarcinoma (0.32), and breast adenocarcinoma (0.29) (p = 0.002). We modeled the GARD for these samples and identified the biologically effective dose necessary to optimize local control. The 12- and 24-month Kaplan-Meier rates of local control for radioresistant versus radiosensitive histologic types from our clinical correlation cohort after lung SBRT were 92%/87% and 100%, respectively (p = 0.02). In this analysis, we have noted significant differences in radiosensitivity on the basis of primary histologic type of lung metastases and have modeled the biologically effective dose necessary to optimize local control. This study suggests that primary histologic type may be an additional factor to consider in selection of SBRT dose to the lung and that dose personalization may be feasible.
Sedor, John	Inflammation and Immunity	30332315	29180397	29110761	22813067	21997392	21900451	20347648	20086015	19367311	18486718	The mechanism that explains the association of APOL1 variants with nondiabetic kidney diseases in African Americans remains unclear. Kidney disease risk is inherited as a recessive trait, and many studies investigating the intracellular function of APOL1 have indicated the APOL1 variants G1 and G2 are associated with cytotoxicity. Whether cytotoxicity results from the absence of a protective effect conferred by the G0 allele or is induced by a deleterious effect of variant allele expression has not be conclusively established. A central issue hampering basic biology studies is the lack of model systems that authentically replicate APOL1 expression patterns. APOL1 is present in humans and a few other primates and appears to have important functions in the kidney, as the kidney is the primary target for disease associated with the genetic variance. There have been no studies to date assessing the function of untagged APOL1 protein under native expression in human or primate kidney cells, and no studies have examined the heterozygous state, a disease-free condition in humans. A second major issue is the chronic kidney disease (CKD)-associated APOL1 variants are conditional mutations, where the disease-inducing function is only evident under the appropriate environmental stimulus. In addition, it is possible there may be more than one mechanism of pathogenesis that is dependent on the nature of the stressor or other genetic variabilities. Studies addressing the function of APOL1 and how the CKD-associated APOL1 variants cause kidney disease are challenging and remain to be fully investigated under conditions that faithfully model known human genetics and physiology.	Coding variants in the APOL1 gene are associated with kidney diseases in African ancestral populations; yet, the underlying biologic mechanisms remain uncertain. Variant-dependent autophagic and cytotoxic cell death have been proposed as pathogenic pathways mediating kidney injury. To examine this possibility, we conditionally expressed APOL1-G0 (reference), -G1, and -G2 (variants) using a tetracycline-regulated system in HEK293 cells. Autophagy was monitored biochemically and cell death was measured using multiple assays. We measured intracellular Na<sup>+</sup> and K<sup>+</sup> content with atomic absorption spectroscopy and APOL1-dependent currents with whole-cell patch clamping. Neither reference nor variant APOL1s induced autophagy. At high expression levels, APOL1-G0, -G1, and -G2 inserted into the plasma membrane and formed pH-sensitive cation channels, causing collapse of cellular Na<sup>+</sup> and K<sup>+</sup> gradients, phosphorylation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase, and cell death, without variant-dependent differences. APOL1-G0 and -G2 exhibited similar channel properties in whole-cell patch clamp experiments. At low expression levels, neither reference nor variant APOL1s localized on the plasma membrane, Na<sup>+</sup> and K<sup>+</sup> gradients were maintained, and cells remained viable. Our results indicate that APOL1-mediated pore formation is critical for the trypanolytic activity of APOL1 and drives APOL1-mediated cytotoxicity in overexpression systems. The absence of cytotoxicity at physiologic expression levels suggests variant-dependent intracellular K<sup>+</sup> loss and cytotoxicity does not drive kidney disease progression.	The association of variants in the APOL1 gene, which encodes apolipoprotein L1 (APOL1), with progressive nondiabetic kidney diseases in African Americans has prompted intense investigation into the function(s) of APOL1. APOL1 is an innate immune effector that protects human beings from infection by some trypanosomal parasites. We review the data characterizing APOL1 trypanolytic function, which has been a basis for studies of APOL1 function in mammalian cells. Subsequently, we discuss the studies that use animal models, mammalian cell culture models, and kidney biopsy tissue to discover the mechanisms of variant APOL1-associated kidney diseases.	The genetic architecture responsible for chronic kidney disease (CKD) remains incompletely described. The Oligosyndactyly (Os) mouse models focal and segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS), which is associated with reduced nephron number caused by the Os mutation. The Os mutation leads to FSGS in multiple strains including the ROP-Os/+. However, on the C57Bl/6J background the mutation does not cause FSGS, although nephron number in these mice are equivalent to those in ROP-Os/+ mice. We exploited this phenotypic variation to identify genes that potentially contribute to glomerulosclerosis. To identify such novel genes, which regulate susceptibility or resistance to renal disease progression, we generated and compared the renal transcriptomes using serial analysis of gene expression (SAGE) from the sclerosis-prone ROP-Os/+ and sclerosis resistant C57-Os/+ mouse kidneys. We confirmed the validity of the differential gene expression using multiple approaches. We also used an Ingenuity Pathway Analysis engine to assemble differentially regulated molecular networks. Cell culture techniques were employed to confirm functional relevance of selected genes. A comparative analysis of the kidney transcriptomes revealed multiple genes, with expression levels that were statistically different. These novel, candidate, renal disease susceptibility/resistance genes included neuropilin2 (Nrp2), glutathione-S-transferase theta (Gstt1) and itchy (Itch). Of 34 genes with the most robust statistical difference in expression levels between ROP-Os/+ and C57-Os/+ mice, 13 and 3 transcripts localized to glomerular and tubulointerstitial compartments, respectively, from micro-dissected human FSGS biopsies. Network analysis of all significantly differentially expressed genes identified 13 connectivity networks. The most highly scored network highlighted the roles for oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction pathways. Functional analyses of these networks provided evidence for activation of transforming growth factor beta (TGFβ) signaling in ROP-Os/+ kidneys despite similar expression of the TGFβ ligand between the tested strains. These data demonstrate the complex dysregulation of normal cellular functions in this animal model of FSGS and suggest that therapies directed at multiple levels will be needed to effectively treat human kidney diseases.	In patients of African ancestry, genetic variants in APOL1, which encodes apolipoprotein L1, associate with the nondiabetic kidney diseases, focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS), HIV-associated nephropathy (HIVAN), and hypertensive nephropathy. Understanding the renal localization of APOL1 may provide clues that will ultimately help elucidate the mechanisms by which APOL1 variants promote nephropathy. Here, we used immunohistology to examine APOL1 localization in normal human kidney sections and in biopsies demonstrating either FSGS (n = 8) or HIVAN (n = 2). Within normal glomeruli, APOL1 only localized to podocytes. Compared with normal glomeruli, fewer cells stained for APOL1 in FSGS and HIVAN glomeruli, even when expression of the podocyte markers GLEPP1 and synaptopodin appeared normal. APOL1 localized to proximal tubular epithelia in normal kidneys, FSGS, and HIVAN. We detected APOL1 in the arteriolar endothelium of normal and diseased kidney sections. Unexpectedly, in both FSGS and HIVAN but not normal kidneys, the media of medium artery and arterioles contained a subset of α-smooth muscle actin-positive cells that stained for APOL1. Comparing the renal distribution of APOL1 in nondiabetic kidney disease to normal kidney suggests that a previously unrecognized arteriopathy may contribute to disease pathogenesis in patients of African ancestry.	Podocytes respond to environmental cues by remodeling their slit diaphragms and cell-matrix adhesive junctions. Wt1-interacting protein (Wtip), an Ajuba family LIM domain scaffold protein expressed in the podocyte, coordinates cell adhesion changes and transcriptional responses to regulate podocyte phenotypic plasticity. We evaluated effects of Wtip on podocyte cell-cell and cell-matrix contact organization using gain-of- and loss-of-function methods. Endogenous Wtip targeted to focal adhesions in adherent but isolated podocytes and then shifted to adherens junctions after cells made stable, homotypic contacts. Podocytes with Wtip knockdown (shWtip) adhered but failed to spread normally. Noncontacted shWtip podocytes did not assemble actin stress fibers, and their focal adhesions failed to mature. As shWtip podocytes established cell-cell contacts, stable adherens junctions failed to form and F-actin structures were disordered. In shWtip cells, cadherin and β-catenin clustered in irregularly distributed spots that failed to laterally expand. Cell surface biotinylation showed diminished plasma membrane cadherin, β-catenin, and α-catenin in shWtip podocytes, although protein expression was similar in shWtip and control cells. Since normal actin dynamics are required for organization of adherens junctions and focal adhesions, we determined whether Wtip regulates F-actin assembly. Undifferentiated podocytes did not elaborate F-actin stress fibers, but when induced to overexpress WTIP, formed abundant stress fibers, a process blocked by the RhoA inhibitor C3 toxin and a RhoA kinase inhibitor. WTIP directly interacted with Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) 12 (Arhgef12), a RhoA-specific GEF enriched in the glomerulus. In conclusion, stable assembly of podocyte adherens junctions and cell-matrix contacts requires Wtip, a process that may be mediated by spatiotemporal regulation of RhoA activity through appropriate targeting of Arhgef12.	Studies of the genetics of common diseases have revealed multiple risk alleles associated with end-stage renal disease, albuminuria, serum creatinine, diabetes, coronary heart disease, and increased triglyceride levels. These associations have prompted further basic science research, which has led to the discovery of novel pathways and a better understanding of the pathophysiology of common diseases. Currently, the ability to translate these discoveries into clinical practice is limited by the small effect size of these risk alleles and a lack of studies showing meaningful impact of genetic variation on risk assessment and clinical outcomes. Advances in genetic testing will continue to yield highly significant associations but translation into clinical practice will require effective collaboration between physicians and basic and social scientists. Rigorous clinical trials eventually will reveal which combination of genetic tests improves risk stratification and identifies individuals most likely to benefit from specific prevention strategies and therapies.	Podocyte structural and transcriptional phenotype plasticity characterizes glomerular injury. Transcriptional activity of WT1 (Wilm's tumor 1) is required for normal podocyte structure and is repressed by the podocyte adherens junction protein, WTIP (WT1 interacting protein). Here we show that WTIP translocated into podocyte nuclei in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-treated mice, a model of transient nephrotic syndrome. Cultured podocytes, which stably expressed an epitope-tagged WTIP, were treated with LPS. Imaging and cellular fractionation studies demonstrated that WTIP translocated from podocyte cell contacts into nuclei within 6 h and relocalized to cell contacts within 24 h after LPS treatment. LPS-stimulated WTIP nuclear translocation required JNK activity, which assembled a multiprotein complex of the scaffolding protein JNK-interacting protein 3 and the molecular motor dynein. Intact microtubule networks and dynein activity were necessary for LPS-stimulated WTIP translocation. Podocytes expressing sh-Wtip change morphology and demonstrate altered actin assembly in cell spreading assays. Stress signaling pathways initiate WTIP nuclear translocation, and the concomitant loss of WTIP from cell contacts changes podocyte morphology and dynamic actin assembly, suggesting a mechanism that transmits changes in podocyte morphology to the nucleus.	Renal biopsy is viewed as the gold standard for diagnosis and management of many kidney diseases, especially glomerulopathies. However, the histopathological descriptions currently used in clinical practice often are neither diagnostic nor prognostic. The paper by Sethi et al. highlights the availability of a newer investigative tool that can be used to better define pathogenesis and, perhaps more important, to discover robust biomarkers of kidney disease cause and outcome.	Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a complex disease affecting more than 20 million individuals in the United States. Progression of CKD is associated with a number of serious complications, including increased incidence of cardiovascular disease, hyperlipidemia, anemia, and metabolic bone disease. CKD patients should be assessed for the presence of these complications and receive optimal treatment to reduce their morbidity and mortality. A multidisciplinary approach is required to accomplish this goal.
Sen, Ganes	Inflammation and Immunity	29531172	27815826	27631700	27178468	27137933	26958928	26414443	26341626	25428874	25231314	Mammalian TLRs recognize microbial infection or cell death-associated danger signals and trigger the appropriate cellular response. These responses determine the strength and the outcome of the host-microbe interaction. TLRs are transmembrane proteins located on the plasma or the endosomal membrane. Their ectodomains recognize specific microbial or endogenous ligands, and the cytoplasmic domains interact with specific proteins to activate intracellular signaling pathways. TLR9, an endosomal TLR, is activated by endocytosed DNA. Activated TLR9 recruits the cytoplasmic adapter MyD88 and other signaling proteins to induce the synthesis of inflammatory cytokines and IFN. Uncontrolled activation of TLR9 leads to the undesired overproduction of inflammatory cytokines and consequent pathogenesis. Therefore, appropriate activation and the regulation of TLR9 signaling are critical. Tyrosine (Tyr) phosphorylation of TLR9 is essential for its activation; however, the role of specific Tyr kinases is not clear. In this article, we report that epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), a membrane-bound protein Tyr kinase, is essential for TLR9 signaling. Genetic ablation of EGFR or pharmacological inhibition of its kinase activity attenuates TLR9-mediated induction of genes in myeloid and nonmyeloid cell types. EGFR is constitutively bound to TLR9; upon ligand stimulation, it mediates TLR9 Tyr phosphorylation, which leads to the recruitment of MyD88, activation of the signaling kinases and transcription factors, and gene induction. In mice, TLR9-mediated liver injury and death are blocked by an EGFR inhibitor or deletion of the EGFR gene from myeloid cells, which are the major producers of inflammatory cytokines.	The innate immune response is the first line of host defense to eliminate viral infection. Pattern recognition receptors in the cytosol, such as RIG-I-like receptors (RLR) and Nod-like receptors (NLR), and membrane bound Toll like receptors (TLR) detect viral infection and initiate transcription of a cohort of antiviral genes, including interferon (IFN) and interferon stimulated genes (ISGs), which ultimately block viral replication. Another mechanism to reduce viral spread is through RIPA, the RLR-induced IRF3-mediated pathway of apoptosis, which causes infected cells to undergo premature death. The transcription factor IRF3 can mediate cellular antiviral responses by both inducing antiviral genes and triggering apoptosis through the activation of RIPA. The mechanism of IRF3 activation in RIPA is distinct from that of transcriptional activation; it requires linear polyubiquitination of specific lysine residues of IRF3. Using RIPA-active, but transcriptionally inactive, IRF3 mutants, it was shown that RIPA can prevent viral replication and pathogenesis in mice.	The intracellular microbial nucleic acid sensors, TLR3 and STING, recognize pathogen molecules and signal to activate the interferon pathway. The TIR-domain containing protein TRIF is the sole adaptor of TLR3. Here, we report an essential role for TRIF in STING signaling: various activators of STING could not induce genes in the absence of TRIF. TRIF and STING interacted directly, through their carboxy-terminal domains, to promote STING dimerization, intermembrane translocation, and signaling. Herpes simplex virus (HSV), which triggers the STING signaling pathway and is controlled by it, replicated more efficiently in the absence of TRIF, and HSV-infected TRIF(-/-) mice displayed pronounced pathology. Our results indicate that defective STING signaling may be responsible for the observed genetic association between TRIF mutations and herpes simplex encephalitis in patients. 	The transcription factor IRF-3 mediates cellular antiviral response by inducing the expression of interferon and other antiviral proteins. In RNA-virus infected cells, IRF-3's transcriptional activation is triggered primarily by RIG-I-like receptors (RLR), which can also activate the RLR-induced IRF-3-mediated pathway of apoptosis (RIPA). Here, we have reported that the pathway of IRF-3 activation in RIPA was independent of and distinct from the known pathway of transcriptional activation of IRF-3. It required linear polyubiquitination of two specific lysine residues of IRF-3 by LUBAC, the linear polyubiquitinating enzyme complex, which bound IRF-3 in signal-dependent fashion. To evaluate the role of RIPA in viral pathogenesis, we engineered a genetically targeted mouse, which expressed a mutant IRF-3 that was RIPA-competent but transcriptionally inert; this single-action IRF-3 could protect mice from lethal viral infection. Our observations indicated that IRF-3-mediated apoptosis of virus-infected cells could be an effective antiviral mechanism, without expression of the interferon-stimulated genes.	The chromosomally clustered interferon-induced with tetratricopeptide repeat motif (IFIT) gene family members share structural features at the gene and protein levels. Despite these similarities, different IFIT genes have distinct inducer- and cell type-specific induction patterns. Here, we investigated the mechanism for the observed differential induction of the mouse Ifit1, Ifit2, and Ifit3 genes in B cells and demonstrated that the repressive effect of the transcription factor interferon regulatory factor 8 (IRF8), which is highly expressed in B cells, played an essential role in this regulation. Although IRF8 could impair induction of all three IFIT genes following stimulation of retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I), it could selectively impair the induction of the Ifit1 gene following IFN stimulation. The above properties could be imparted to IRF8-non-expressing cells by ectopic expression of the protein. Induction of reporter genes, driven by truncated Ifit1 promoters, identified the regions that mediate the repression, and a chromatin immunoprecipitation assay revealed that more IRF8 bound to the IFN-stimulated response element of the Ifit1 gene than to those of the Ifit2 and the Ifit3 genes. Mutational analyses of IRF8 showed that its ability to bind DNA, interact with other proteins, and undergo sumoylation were all necessary to selectively repress Ifit1 gene induction in response to IFN. Our study revealed a new role for IRFs in differentially regulating the induction patterns of closely related IFN-stimulated genes that are located adjacent to one another in the mouse genome.	The interferon system protects mammals against virus infections. There are several types of interferons, which are characterized by their ability to inhibit virus replication and resultant pathogenesis by triggering both innate and cell-mediated immune responses. Virus infection is sensed by a variety of cellular pattern-recognition receptors and triggers the synthesis of interferons, which are secreted by the infected cells. In uninfected cells, cell surface receptors recognize the secreted interferons and activate intracellular signaling pathways that induce the expression of interferon-stimulated genes; the proteins encoded by these genes inhibit different stages of virus replication. To avoid extinction, almost all viruses have evolved mechanisms to defend themselves against the interferon system. Consequently, a dynamic equilibrium of survival is established between the virus and its host, an equilibrium that can be shifted to the host's favor by the use of exogenous interferon as a therapeutic antiviral agent. 	The murine double-stranded RNA-binding protein termed protein kinase R (PKR)-associated protein X (RAX) and the human homolog, protein activator of PKR (PACT), were originally characterized as activators of PKR. Mice deficient in RAX show reproductive and developmental defects, including reduced body size, craniofacial defects and anterior pituitary hypoplasia. As these defects are not observed in PKR-deficient mice, the phenotype has been attributed to PKR-independent activities of RAX. Here we further investigated the involvement of PKR in the physiological function of RAX, by generating rax(-/-) mice deficient in PKR, or carrying a kinase-inactive mutant of PKR (K271R) or an unphosphorylatable mutant of the PKR substrate eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2 α subunit (eIF2α) (S51A). Ablating PKR expression rescued the developmental and reproductive deficiencies in rax(-/-) mice. Generating rax(-/-) mice with a kinase-inactive mutant of PKR resulted in similar rescue, confirming that the rax(-/-) defects are PKR dependent; specifically that the kinase activity of PKR was required for these defects. Moreover, generating rax(-/-) mice that were heterozygous for an unphosphorylatable mutant eIF2α provides partial rescue of the rax(-/-) defect, consistent with mutation of one copy of the Eif2s1 gene. These observations were further investigated in vitro by reducing RAX expression in anterior pituitary cells, resulting in increased PKR activity and induction of the PKR-regulated cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21(WAF1/CIP1). These results demonstrate that PKR kinase activity is required for onset of the rax(-/-) phenotype, implying an unexpected function for RAX as a negative regulator of PKR in the context of postnatal anterior pituitary tissue, and identify a critical role for the regulation of PKR activity for normal development.	Mammalian Toll-like receptors (TLR) recognize microbial products and elicit transient immune responses that protect the infected host from disease. TLR4--which signals from both plasma and endosomal membranes--is activated by bacterial lipopolysaccharides (LPS) and induces many cytokine genes, the prolonged expression of which causes septic shock in mice. We report here that the expression of some TLR4-induced genes in myeloid cells requires the protein kinase activity of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). EGFR inhibition affects TLR4-induced responses differently depending on the target gene. The induction of interferon-β (IFN-β) and IFN-inducible genes is strongly inhibited, whereas TNF-α induction is enhanced. Inhibition is specific to the IFN-regulatory factor (IRF)-driven genes because EGFR is required for IRF activation downstream of TLR--as is IRF co-activator β-catenin--through the PI3 kinase/AKT pathway. Administration of an EGFR inhibitor to mice protects them from LPS-induced septic shock and death by selectively blocking the IFN branch of TLR4 signaling. These results demonstrate a selective regulation of TLR4 signaling by EGFR and highlight the potential use of EGFR inhibitors to treat septic shock syndrome.	A major component of the protective antiviral host defense is contributed by the intracellular actions of the proteins encoded by interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs); among these are the interferon-induced proteins with tetratricopeptide repeats (IFITs), consisting of four members in human and three in mouse. IFIT proteins do not have any known enzyme activity. Instead, they inhibit virus replication by binding and regulating the functions of cellular and viral proteins and RNAs. Although all IFITs are comprised of multiple copies of the degenerate tetratricopeptide repeats, their distinct tertiary structures enable them to bind different partners and affect host-virus interactions differently. The recent use of Ifit knockout mouse models has revealed novel antiviral functions of these proteins and new insights into the specificities of ISG actions. This article focuses on human and murine IFIT1 and IFIT2 by reviewing their mechanisms of action, their critical roles in protecting mice from viral pathogenesis, and viral strategies to evade IFIT action. 	The type I/III interferon (IFN) system has major roles in regulating viral pathogenesis, usually ameliorating pathogenesis by impairing virus replication through the antiviral actions of one or more IFN-induced proteins. Ifit2 is one such protein which can be induced by IFN or virus infection, and it is responsible for protecting mice from neuropathogenesis caused by vesicular stomatitis virus. Here, we show that Ifit2 also protects mice from pathogenesis caused by the respirovirus Sendai virus (SeV). Mice lacking Ifit2 (Ifit2(-/-)) suffered severe weight loss and succumbed to intranasal infection with SeV strain 52 at a dose that killed only a few wild-type mice. Viral RNA was detectable only in lungs, and SeV titers were higher in Ifit2(-/-) mice than in wild-type mice. Similar infiltration of immune cells was found in the lungs of both mouse lines, corresponding to similar levels of many induced cytokines and chemokines. In contrast, IFN-β and IFN-λ3 expression were considerably higher in the lungs of Ifit2(-/-) mice. Surprisingly, type I IFN receptor knockout (IFNAR(-/-)) mice were less susceptible to SeV than Ifit2(-/-) mice, although their pulmonary virus titers were similarly high. To test the intriguing possibility that type I IFN action enhances pathogenesis in the context of elevated SeV replication in lungs, we generated Ifit2/IFNAR(-/-) double knockout mice. These mice were less susceptible to SeV than Ifit2(-/-) mice, although viral titers in their lungs were even higher. Our results indicate that high SeV replication in the lungs of infected Ifit2(-/-) mice cooperates with elevated IFN-β induction to cause disease. The IFN system is an innate defense against virus infections. It is triggered quickly in infected cells, which then secrete IFN. Via their cell surface receptors on surrounding cells, they induce transcription of numerous IFN-stimulated genes (ISG), which in turn protect these cells by inhibiting virus life cycles. Hence, IFNs are commonly considered beneficial during virus infections. Here, we report two key findings. First, lack of a single ISG in mice, Ifit2, resulted in high mortality after SeV infection of the respiratory tract, following higher virus loads and higher IFN production in Ifit2(-/-) lungs. Second, mortality of Ifit2(-/-) mice was reduced when mice also lacked the type I IFN receptor, while SeV loads in lungs still were high. This indicates that type I IFN exacerbates pathogenesis in the SeV model, and that limitation of both viral replication and IFN production is needed for effective prevention of disease.
Sharifi, Nima	Cancer Biology	30262668	29939161	29850791	29346776	29231195	29049492	29049452	28733443	28648378	28389515	Androgens such as testosterone and dihydrotestosterone are a critical driver of prostate cancer progression. Cancer resistance to androgen deprivation therapies ensues when tumors engage metabolic processes that produce sustained androgen levels in the tissue. However, the molecular mechanisms involved in this resistance process are unclear, and functional imaging modalities that predict impending resistance are lacking. Here, using the human LNCaP and C4-2 cell line models of prostate cancer, we show that castration treatment-sensitive prostate cancer cells that normally have an intact glucuronidation pathway that rapidly conjugates and inactivates dihydrotestosterone and thereby limits androgen signaling, become glucuronidation deficient and resistant to androgen deprivation. Mechanistically, using CRISPR/Cas9-mediated gene ablation, we found that loss of UDP glucuronosyltransferase family 2 member B15 (UGT2B15) and UGT2B17 is sufficient to restore free dihydrotestosterone, sustained androgen signaling, and development of castration resistance. Furthermore, loss of glucuronidation enzymatic activity was also detectable with a nonsteroid glucuronidation substrate. Of note, glucuronidation-incompetent cells and the resultant loss of intracellular conjugated dihydrotestosterone were detectable in vivo by <sup>18</sup>F-dihydrotestosterone PET. Together, these findings couple a mechanism with a functional imaging modality to identify impending castration resistance in prostate cancers.	A common germline variant in HSD3B1(1245A&gt;C) encodes for a hyperactive 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 1 (3βHSD1) missense that increases metabolic flux from extragonadal precursor steroids to DHT synthesis in prostate cancer. Enabling of extragonadal DHT synthesis by HSD3B1(1245C) predicts for more rapid clinical resistance to castration and sensitivity to extragonadal androgen synthesis inhibition. HSD3B1(1245C) thus appears to define a subgroup of patients who benefit from blocking extragonadal androgens. However, abiraterone, which is administered to block extragonadal androgens, is a steroidal drug that is metabolized by 3βHSD1 to multiple steroidal metabolites, including 3-keto-5α-abiraterone, which stimulates the androgen receptor. Our objective was to determine if HSD3B1(1245C) inheritance is associated with increased 3-keto-5α-abiraterone synthesis in patients. First, we characterized the pharmacokinetics of 7 steroidal abiraterone metabolites in 15 healthy volunteers. Second, we determined the association between serum 3-keto-5α-abiraterone levels and HSD3B1 genotype in 30 patients treated with abiraterone acetate (AA) after correcting for the determined pharmacokinetics. Patients who inherit 0, 1, and 2 copies of HSD3B1(1245C) have a stepwise increase in normalized 3-keto-5α-abiraterone (0.04 ng/ml, 2.60 ng/ml, and 2.70 ng/ml, respectively; P = 0.002). Increased generation of 3-keto-5α-abiraterone in patients with HSD3B1(1245C) might partially negate abiraterone benefits in these patients who are otherwise more likely to benefit from CYP17A1 inhibition. Prostate Cancer Foundation Challenge Award, National Cancer Institute.	3βHSD1 enzymatic activity is essential for synthesis of potent androgens from adrenal precursor steroids in prostate cancer. A germline variant in HSD3B1, the gene that encodes 3βHSD1, encodes for a stable enzyme, regulates adrenal androgen dependence, and is a predictive biomarker of poor clinical outcomes after gonadal testosterone deprivation therapy. However, little is known about HSD3B1 transcriptional regulation. Generally, it is thought that intratumoral androgen synthesis is upregulated after gonadal testosterone deprivation, enabling development of castration-resistant prostate cancer. Given its critical role in extragonadal androgen synthesis, we sought to directly interrogate the transcriptional regulation of HSD3B1 in multiple metastatic prostate cancer cell models. Surprisingly, we found that VCaP, CWR22Rv1, LNCaP, and LAPC4 models demonstrate induction of HSD3B1 upon androgen stimulation for approximately 72 hours, followed by attenuation around 120 hours. 3βHSD1 protein levels mirrored transcriptional changes in models harboring variant (LNCaP) and wild-type (LAPC4) HSD3B1, and in these models androgen induction of HSD3B1 is abrogated via enzalutamide treatment. Androgen treatment increased flux from [3H]-dehydroepiandrosterone to androstenedione and other downstream metabolites. HSD3B1 expression was reduced 72 hours after castration in the VCaP xenograft mouse model, suggesting androgen receptor (AR) regulation of HSD3B1 also occurs in vivo. Overall, these data suggest that HSD3B1 is unexpectedly positively regulated by androgens and ARs. These data may have implications for the development of treatment strategies tailored to HSD3B1 genotype status.	Castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) requires tumors to engage metabolic mechanisms that allow sustained testosterone and/or dihydrotestosterone to stimulate progression. 17β-Hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 4 (17βHSD4), encoded by HSD17B4, is thought to inactivate testosterone and dihydrotestosterone by converting them to their respective inert 17-keto steroids. Counterintuitively, HSD17B4 expression increases in CRPC and predicts poor prognosis. Here, we show that, of five alternative splice forms, only isoform 2 encodes an enzyme capable of testosterone and dihydrotestosterone inactivation. In contrast with other transcripts, functional expression of isoform 2 is specifically suppressed in development of CRPC in patients. Genetically silencing isoform 2 shifts the metabolic balance toward 17β-OH androgens (testosterone and dihydrotestosterone), stimulating androgen receptor (AR) and CRPC development. Our studies specifically implicate HSD17B4 isoform 2 loss in lethal prostate cancer.	Patients with advanced prostate cancer who receive androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) almost invariably develop castration-resistant disease. The mechanism of resistance is largely based on synthesis of intratumoral androgens from adrenal precursors, requiring enzymatic action of 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase/Δ<sup>5→4</sup> isomerase 1 (3β-HSD1), encoded by HSD3B1. A nucleotide polymorphism (1245A&gt;C) in HSD3B1 results in a protein variant with increased steady-state levels and subsequently increased androgen synthesis from extragonadal precursors. Multiple clinical studies have shown that patients with the variant allele have significantly worse outcomes after ADT than those without, indicating that HSD3B1 variant status is a predictive biomarker of shortened ADT response. In addition, inheritance of the HSD3B1 variant is associated with extended responses to 17α-hydroxylase/17,20-lyase (CYP17A1) inhibition with a nonsteroidal agent, adding to evidence of increased tumour dependence on extragonadal androgens in patients who inherited the HSD3B1 variant. However, steroidal drugs with a 3β-hydroxyl, Δ<sup>5</sup>-structure, such as abiraterone, are also metabolized by 3β-HSD1, and 5α-abiraterone, a downstream metabolite, has been shown to activate the androgen receptor, potentially driving cancer progression. These data indicate a potential requirement to modify the treatment framework of patients harbouring variant HSD3B1.	The variant HSD3B1 (1245C) allele enhances dihydrotestosterone synthesis and predicts resistance to androgen-deprivation therapy (ADT) for biochemically recurrent prostate cancer after prostatectomy and for metastatic disease. Whether this is true after radiotherapy is unknown. To determine whether the HSD3B1 (1245C) allele predicts worse clinical outcomes from ADT for biochemical recurrence after radiotherapy. The Prostate Clinical Research Information System at Dana-Farber Cancer Institute was used to identify the study cohort, which included men treated with ADT for biochemical recurrence after primary radiotherapy between 1996 and 2013. We retrospectively determined HSD3B1 genotype. Time to progression, time to metastasis, and overall survival according to genotype. Demographic and treatment characteristics were evaluated for confounders. Multivariable analyses were performed to adjust for known prognostic factors. A total of 218 eligible men were identified, of whom 213 (98%) were successfully genotyped. Of these, 97 of 213 (46%), 96 of 213 (45%) and 20 of 213 (9%) carried 0, 1, and 2 variant alleles. Overall variant allele frequency was 136 of 426 alleles (32%). Median patient age (interquartile range) was 69 (63-74), 72 (65-78), and 69 (65-77) years for 0, 1, and 2 variant alleles (P = .03). Demographic and treatment factors were otherwise similar. During a median follow-up of 7.9 years, median time to progression was 2.3 years (95% CI, 1.6-3.1 years) with 0 variant alleles, 2.3 years (95% CI, 1.5-3.3 years) with 1 variant allele, and 1.4 years (95% CI, 0.7-3.3 years) with 2 variant alleles (P = .68). Median time to metastasis diminished with the number of variant alleles inherited: 7.4 (95% CI, 6.7-9.7), 5.8 (95% CI, 4.9-6.5), and 4.4 (95% CI, 3.0-5.7) years, with inheritance of 0, 1, and 2 variant alleles, respectively (P = .03). Median OS was 7.7 (95% CI, 6.7-10.3), 6.9 (95% CI, 5.8-8.4), and 7.2 (95% CI, 3.8-7.9) years with inheritance of 0, 1, and 2 variant alleles, respectively (P = .31). On multivariable analysis with 0 variant alleles as the reference, the adjusted hazard ratio for metastasis was 1.19 (95% CI, 0.74-1.92) (P = .48) for 1 variant allele and 2.01 (95% CI, 1.02-3.97) (P = .045) for 2 variant alleles. Multivariable analysis did not demonstrate significant differences in TTP or OS. In this study, the HSD3B1 (1245C) allele was associated with more rapid development of metastases in men treated with ADT for biochemical recurrence after primary radiation therapy for prostate cancer. Notably, 105 of 213 men (49%) had received prior ADT, and 119 of 213 (56%) received an androgen receptor antagonist during salvage treatment, both of which may attenuate the effect of the variant allele.	The HSD3B1 (1245C) germline variant encodes for a gain-of-function missense in 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase isoenzyme 1 (3βHSD1) that results in increased dihydrotestosterone synthesis from extragonadal precursors and is predictive of more rapid progression to castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC). To determine whether the HSD3B1 (1245C) genotype is predictive of clinical response to extragonadal androgen ablation with nonsteroidal 17α-hydroxylase/17,20-lyase (CYP17A1) inhibition in men with metastatic CRPC. An observational study of men with metastatic CRPC treated with ketoconazole between June 1998 and December 2012 was conducted at the University of California, San Francisco. Extragonadal androgen ablation with the nonsteroidal CYP17A1 inhibitor ketoconazole among men with metastatic CRPC. The primary end points of analysis were duration of ketoconazole therapy and time to disease progression stratified by HSD3B1 genotype. Disease progression was defined as either biochemical or radiographic progression, using the Prostate Cancer Working Group 3 and Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 definitions, respectively. Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to estimate time on therapy and time to disease progression. A log-rank test for trend was used to compare outcomes by HSD3B1 genotype. A total of 90 men (median [interquartile range] age, 61.5 [55.3-67.0] years) with metastatic CRPC were included in the analysis, with sufficient data to determine duration of ketoconazole therapy and time to disease progression in 88 and 81 patients, respectively. The median duration of therapy increased with the number of inherited HSD3B1 (1245C) variant alleles: 5.0 months (95% CI, 3.4-10.4) for 0 variant alleles; 7.5 months (95% CI, 4.9-19.2) for 1; and 12.3 months (95% CI, 1.8-not reached) for 2 (overall comparison for trend, P = .01). Median progression-free survival also increased with number of HSD3B1 (1245C) variant alleles inherited: 5.4 months (95% CI, 3.7-7.5) for 0 variant alleles; 9.7 months (95% CI, 5.6-32.9) for 1; and 15.2 months (95% CI, 7.8-not reached) for 2 (overall comparison for trend, P = .03). Inheritance of the HSD3B1 (1245C) variant allele, which is a predictive biomarker of resistance to castration, is also a predictive biomarker of sensitivity to extragonadal androgen ablation with a nonsteroidal CYP17A1 inhibitor. These findings signal a possible pathway of treatment stratification for patients with prostate cancer.	Purpose: A major mechanism of castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) involves intratumoral biosynthesis of dihydrotestosterone (DHT) from adrenal precursors. We have previously shown that adrenal-derived androstenedione (AD) is the preferred substrate over testosterone (T) for 5α-reductase expressed in metastatic CRPC, bypassing T as an obligate precursor to DHT. However, the metabolic pathway of adrenal-derived DHT biosynthesis has not been rigorously investigated in the setting of primary disease in the prostate.Experimental Design: Seventeen patients with clinically localized prostate cancer were consented for fresh tissues after radical prostatectomy. Prostate tissues were cultured ex vivo in media spiked with an equimolar mixture of AD and T, and stable isotopic tracing was employed to simultaneously follow the enzymatic conversion of both precursor steroids into nascent metabolites, detected by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. CRPC cell line models and xenograft tissues were similarly assayed for comparative analysis. A tritium-labeled steroid radiotracing approach was used to validate our findings.Results: Prostatectomy tissues readily 5α-reduced both T and AD. Furthermore, 5α-reduction of AD was the major directionality of metabolic flux to DHT. However, AD and T were comparably metabolized by 5α-reductase in primary prostate tissues, contrasting the preference exhibited by CRPC in which AD was favored over T. 5α-reductase inhibitors effectively blocked the conversion of AD to DHT.Conclusions: Both AD and T are substrates of 5α-reductase in prostatectomy tissues, resulting in two distinctly nonredundant metabolic pathways to DHT. Furthermore, the transition to CRPC may coincide with a metabolic switch toward AD as the favored substrate. Clin Cancer Res; 23(20); 6351-62. ©2017 AACR.	Galeterone is a steroidal CYP17A1 inhibitor, androgen receptor (AR) antagonist, and AR degrader, under evaluation in a phase III clinical trial for castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC). The A/B steroid ring (Δ<sup>5</sup>,3β-hydroxyl) structure of galeterone is identical to that of cholesterol, which makes endogenous steroids with the same structure (e.g., dehydroepiandrosterone and pregnenolone) substrates for the enzyme 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3βHSD). We found that galeterone is metabolized by 3βHSD to Δ<sup>4</sup>-galeterone (D4G), which is further converted by steroid-5α-reductase (SRD5A) to 3-keto-5α-galeterone (5αG), 3α-OH-5α-galeterone, and 3β-OH-5α-galeterone; in vivo it is also converted to the three corresponding 5β-reduced metabolites. D4G inhibits steroidogenesis and suppresses AR protein stability, AR target gene expression, and xenograft growth comparably with galeterone, and further conversion by SRD5A leads to loss of several activities that inhibit the androgen axis that may compromise clinical efficacy. Together, these findings define a critical metabolic class effect of steroidal drugs with a Δ<sup>5</sup>,3β-hydroxyl structure.	The androgen-signaling axis plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of prostate cancer. Since the landmark discovery by Huggins and Hodges, gonadal depletion of androgens has remained a mainstay of therapy for advanced disease. However, progression to castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) typically follows and is largely the result of restored androgen signaling. Efforts to understand the mechanisms behind CRPC have revealed new insights into dysregulated androgen signaling and intratumoral androgen synthesis, which has ultimately led to the development of several novel androgen receptor (AR)-directed therapies for CRPC. However, emergence of resistance to these newer agents has also galvanized new directions in investigations of prereceptor and postreceptor AR regulation. Here, we review our current understanding of AR signaling as it pertains to the biology and natural history of prostate cancer.
Silverman, Robert	Cancer Biology	30814222	26517238	25816776	24987090	24905202	24371271	23732991	22875977	22615748	22312343	Drugs that reverse epigenetic silencing, such as the DNA methyltransferase inhibitor (DNMTi) 5-azacytidine (AZA), have profound effects on transcription and tumor cell survival. AZA is an approved drug for myelodysplastic syndromes and acute myeloid leukemia, and is under investigation for different solid malignant tumors. AZA treatment generates self, double-stranded RNA (dsRNA), transcribed from hypomethylated repetitive elements. Self dsRNA accumulation in DNMTi-treated cells leads to type I IFN production and IFN-stimulated gene expression. Here we report that cell death in response to AZA treatment occurs through the 2',5'-oligoadenylate synthetase (OAS)-RNase L pathway. OASs are IFN-induced enzymes that synthesize the RNase L activator 2-5A in response to dsRNA. Cells deficient in RNase L or OAS1 to 3 are highly resistant to AZA, as are wild-type cells treated with a small-molecule inhibitor of RNase L. A small-molecule inhibitor of c-Jun NH2-terminal kinases (JNKs) also antagonizes RNase L-dependent cell death in response to AZA, consistent with a role for JNK in RNase L-induced apoptosis. In contrast, the rates of AZA-induced and RNase L-dependent cell death were increased by transfection of 2-5A, by deficiencies in ADAR1 (which edits and destabilizes dsRNA), PDE12 or AKAP7 (which degrade 2-5A), or by ionizing radiation (which induces IFN-dependent signaling). Finally, OAS1 expression correlates with AZA sensitivity in the NCI-60 set of tumor cell lines, suggesting that the level of OAS1 can be a biomarker for predicting AZA sensitivity of tumor cells. These studies may eventually lead to pharmacologic strategies for regulating the antitumor activity and toxicity of AZA and related drugs.	RNase L is a regulated endoribonuclease that functions in the interferon antiviral response. Activation of RNase L by 2', 5'-oligoadenylates has been linked to apoptosis, autophagy and inflammation. Genetic studies have also suggested the possible involvement of the RNase L gene (RNASEL) on chromosome 1q25.3 in several types of cancer. Here we report that ablation of RNase L in human prostate cancer PC3 cells by CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing technology enhanced cell migration as determined both by transwell assays and scratch wound healing assays. In addition, RNase L knockdown by means of RNAi increased migration of PC3 and DU145 cells in response to either fibronectin or serum stimulation, as did homozygous disruption of the RNase L gene in mouse embryonic fibroblasts. Serum or fibronectin stimulation of focal adhesion kinase (FAK) autophosphorylation on tyrosine-397 was increased by either knockdown or ablation of RNase L. In contrast, a missense mutant RNase L (R667A) lacking catalytic activity failed to suppress cell migration in PC3 cells. However, a nuclease-inactive mutant mouse RNase L (W630A) was able to partially inhibit migration of mouse fibroblasts. Consistent with a role for the catalytic activity of RNase L, transfection of PC3 cells with the RNase L activator, 2', 5'-oligoadenylate, suppressed cell migration. RNase L knockdown in PC3 cells enhanced tumor growth and metastasis following implantation in the mouse prostate. Our results suggest that naturally occurring mutations in the RNase L gene might promote enhanced cell migration and metastasis. 	The NLRP3 inflammasome assembles in response to danger signals, triggering self-cleavage of procaspase-1 and production of the proinflammatory cytokine IL-1β. Although virus infection activates the NLRP3 inflammasome, the underlying events remain incompletely understood. We report that virus activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome involves the 2',5'-oligoadenylate (2-5A) synthetase(OAS)/RNase L system, a component of the interferon-induced antiviral response that senses double-stranded RNA and activates endoribonuclease RNase L to cleave viral and cellular RNAs. The absence of RNase L reduces IL-1β production in influenza A virus-infected mice. RNA cleavage products generated by RNase L enhance IL-1β production but require the presence of 2',3'-cyclic phosphorylated termini characteristic of RNase L activity. Additionally, these cleavage products stimulate NLRP3 complex formation with the DExD/H-box helicase, DHX33, and mitochondrial adaptor protein, MAVS, which are each required for effective NLRP3 inflammasome activation. Thus, RNA cleavage events catalyzed by RNase L are required for optimal inflammasome activation during viral infections.	Viral 2',5'-phosphodiesterases (2',5'-PDEs) help disparate RNA viruses evade the antiviral activity of interferon (IFN) by degrading 2',5'-oligoadenylate (2-5A) activators of RNase L. A kinase anchoring proteins (AKAPs) bind the regulatory subunits of protein kinase A (PKA) to localize and organize cyclic AMP (cAMP) signaling during diverse physiological processes. Among more than 43 AKAP isoforms, AKAP7 appears to be unique in its homology to viral 2',5'-PDEs. Here we show that mouse AKAP7 rapidly degrades 2-5A with kinetics similar to that of murine coronavirus (mouse hepatitis virus [MHV]) strain A59 ns2 and human rotavirus strain WA VP3 proteins. To determine whether AKAP7 could substitute for a viral 2',5'-PDE, we inserted AKAP7 cDNA into an MHV genome with an inactivated ns2 gene. The AKAP7 PDE domain or N-terminally truncated AKAP7 (both lacking a nuclear localization motif), but not full-length AKAP7 or a mutant, AKAP7(H185R), PDE domain restored the infectivity of ns2 mutant MHV in bone marrow macrophages and in livers of infected mice. Interestingly, the AKAP7 PDE domain and N-terminally deleted AKAP7 were present in the cytoplasm (the site of MHV replication), whereas full-length AKAP7 was observed only in nuclei. We suggest the possibility that viral acquisition of the host AKAP7 PDE domain might have occurred during evolution, allowing diverse RNA viruses to antagonize the RNase L pathway. Importance: Early virus-host interactions determine whether an infection is established, highlighting the need to understand fundamental mechanisms regulating viral pathogenesis. Recently, our laboratories reported a novel mode of regulation of the IFN antiviral response. We showed that the coronavirus MHV accessory protein ns2 antagonizes the type I IFN response, promoting viral replication and hepatitis. ns2 confers virulence by cleaving 2',5'-oligoadenylate (2-5A) activators of RNase L in macrophages. We also reported that the rotavirus VP3 C-terminal domain (VP3-CTD) cleaves 2-5A and that it may rescue ns2 mutant MHV. Here we report that a cellular protein, AKAP7, has an analogous 2',5'-phosphodiesterase (2',5'-PDE) domain that is able to restore the growth of chimeric MHV expressing inactive ns2. The proviral effect requires cytoplasmic localization of the AKAP7 PDE domain. We speculate that AKAP7 is the ancestral precursor of viral proteins, such as ns2 and VP3, that degrade 2-5A to evade the antiviral activity of RNase L.	The host interferon (IFN) antiviral response involves a myriad of diverse biochemical pathways that disrupt virus replication cycles at many different levels. As a result, viruses have acquired and evolved genes that antagonize the host antiviral proteins. IFNs inhibit viral infections in part through the 2',5'-oligoadenylate (2-5A) synthetase (OAS)/RNase L pathway. OAS proteins are pathogen recognition receptors that exist at different basal levels in different cell types and that are IFN inducible. Upon activation by the pathogen-associated molecular pattern viral double-stranded RNA, certain OAS proteins synthesize 2-5A from ATP. 2-5A binds to the antiviral enzyme RNase L causing its dimerization and activation. Recently, disparate RNA viruses, group 2a betacoronaviruses, and group A rotaviruses, have been shown to produce proteins with 2',5'-phosphodiesterase (PDE) activities that eliminate 2-5A thereby evading the antiviral activity of the OAS/RNase L pathway. These viral proteins are members of the eukaryotic-viral LigT-like group of 2H phosphoesterases, so named for the presence of 2 conserved catalytic histidine residues. Here, we will review the biochemistry, biology, and implications of viral and cellular 2',5'-PDEs that degrade 2-5A. In addition, we discuss alternative viral and cellular strategies for limiting the activity of OAS/RNase L. 	Retrotransposons are mobile genetic elements, and their mobility can lead to genomic instability. Retrotransposon insertions are associated with a diverse range of sporadic diseases, including cancer. Thus, it is not a surprise that multiple host defense mechanisms suppress retrotransposition. The 2',5'-oligoadenylate (2-5A) synthetase (OAS)-RNase L system is a mechanism for restricting viral infections during the interferon antiviral response. Here, we investigated a potential role for the OAS-RNase L system in the restriction of retrotransposons. Expression of wild type (WT) and a constitutively active form of RNase L (NΔ385), but not a catalytically inactive RNase L mutant (R667A), impaired the mobility of engineered human LINE-1 (L1) and mouse intracisternal A-type particle retrotransposons in cultured human cells. Furthermore, WT RNase L, but not an inactive RNase L mutant (R667A), reduced L1 RNA levels and subsequent expression of the L1-encoded proteins (ORF1p and ORF2p). Consistently, confocal immunofluorescent microscopy demonstrated that WT RNase L, but not RNase L R667A, prevented formation of L1 cytoplasmic foci. Finally, siRNA-mediated depletion of endogenous RNase L in a human ovarian cancer cell line (Hey1b) increased the levels of L1 retrotransposition by ∼2-fold. Together, these data suggest that RNase L might function as a suppressor of structurally distinct retrotransposons. 	The use of lytic viruses to preferentially infect and eliminate cancer cells while sparing normal cells is a promising experimental therapeutic approach for treating cancer. However, the efficacy of oncolytic virotherapy is often limited by two innate immunity pathways, the protein kinase PKR and the 2'-5'-oligoadenylate (OAS)/RNase L systems, which are widely present in many but not all tumor cell types. Previously, we reported that the anticancer drug, sunitinib, an inhibitor of VEGF-R and PDGF-R, has off-target effects against both PKR and RNase L. Here we show that combining sunitinib treatments with infection by an oncolytic virus, vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV), led to the elimination of prostate, breast, and kidney malignant tumors in mice. In contrast, either virus or sunitinib alone slowed tumor progression but did not eliminate tumors. In prostate tumors excised from treated mice, sunitinib decreased levels of the phosphorylated form of translation initiation factor, eIF2-α, a substrate of PKR, by 10-fold while increasing median viral titers by 23-fold. The sunitinib/VSV regimen caused complete and sustained tumor regression in both immunodeficient and immunocompetent animals. Results indicate that transient inhibition of innate immunity with sunitinib enhances oncolytic virotherapy allowing the recovery of tumor-bearing animals.	Autophagy is a programmed homeostatic response to diverse types of cellular stress that disposes of long-lived proteins, organelles, and invading microbes within double-membraned structures called autophagosomes. The 2',5'-oligoadenylate/RNase L system is a virus-activated host RNase pathway that disposes of or processes viral and cellular single-stranded RNAs. Here we report that activation of RNase L during viral infections induces autophagy. Accordingly, infections with encephalomyocarditis virus or vesicular stomatitis virus led to higher levels of autophagy in wild-type mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEF) than in RNase L-null MEF. Similarly, direct activation of RNase L with a 2',5'-oligoadenylate resulted in p62(SQSTM1) degradation, LC3BI/LC3BII conversion, and appearance of autophagosomes. To determine the effect of RNase L-mediated autophagy on viral replication, we compared viral yields in wild-type and RNase L-null MEF in the absence or presence of either chemical inhibitors of autophagy (bafilomycin A1 or 3-methyladenine) or small interfering RNA (siRNA) against ATG5 or beclin-1. At a low multiplicity of infection, induction of autophagy by RNase L during the initial cycle of virus growth contributed to the suppression of virus replication. However, in subsequent rounds of infection, autophagy promoted viral replication, reducing the antiviral effect of RNase L. Our results indicate a novel function of RNase L as an inducer of autophagy that affects viral yields.	The 22Rv1 cell line is widely used for prostate cancer research and other studies throughout the world. These cells were established from a human prostate tumor, CWR22, that was serially passaged in nude mice and selected for androgen independence. The 22Rv1 cells are known to produce high titers of xenotropic murine leukemia virus-related virus (XMRV). Recent studies suggested that XMRV was inadvertently created in the 1990's when two murine leukemia virus (MLV) genomes (pre-XMRV1 and pre-XMRV-2) recombined during passaging of the CWR22 tumor in mice. The conclusion that XMRV originated from mice and not the patient was based partly on the failure to detect XMRV in early CWR22 xenografts. While that deduction is certainly justified, we examined the possibility that a closely related virus could have been present in primary tumor tissue. Here we report that we have located the original prostate tumor tissue excised from patient CWR22 and have assayed the corresponding DNA by PCR and the tissue sections by fluorescence in situ hybridization for the presence of XMRV or a similar virus. The primary tumor tissues lacked mouse DNA as determined by PCR for intracisternal A type particle DNA, thus avoiding one of the limitations of studying xenografts. We show that neither XMRV nor a closely related virus was present in primary prostate tissue of patient CWR22. Our findings confirm and reinforce the conclusion that XMRV is a recombinant laboratory-generated mouse virus that is highly adapted for human prostate cancer cells.	Xenotropic murine leukemia virus-related virus (XMRV) was first reported in 2006 in a study of human prostate cancer patients with genetic variants of the antiviral enzyme, RNase L. Subsequent investigations in North America, Europe, Asia, and Africa have either observed or failed to detect XMRV in patients (prostate cancer, chronic fatigue syndrome-myalgic encephalomyelitis (CFS-ME), and immunosuppressed with respiratory tract infections) or normal, healthy, control individuals. The principal confounding factors are the near ubiquitous presence of mouse-derived reagents, antibodies and cells, and often XMRV itself, in laboratories. XMRV infects and replicates well in many human cell lines, but especially in certain prostate cancer cell lines. XMRV also traffics to prostate in a nonhuman primate model of infection. Here, we will review the discovery of XMRV and then focus on prostate cancer-related research involving this intriguing virus.
Smith, Jonathan	Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences	31102955	30354238	29615096	29545482	29301789	29097366	27514935	26783232	25561462	25359426	We previously demonstrated that Apoe<sup>-/-</sup> mice on DBA/2 vs. AKR genetic background have &gt;10-fold larger atherosclerotic lesions. Prior quantitative trait locus mapping via strain intercrossing identified a region on chromosome 17, Ath26, as the strongest atherosclerosis-modifying locus. We aimed to confirm Ath26, identify candidate genes, and validate the candidate gene effects on atherosclerosis. We bred chromosome 17 interval congenic mice to confirm that Ath26 locus contains atherosclerosis modifying gene(s). Bone marrow derived macrophage transcriptomics was performed to identify candidate genes at this locus whose expression was correlated with lesions in a strain intercross. The Cyp4f13 candidate gene was tested via a gene knockout approach and in vivo and ex vivo phenotype analyses. A congenic mouse strain containing the DBA/2 interval on chromosome 17 on the AKR Apoe<sup>-/-</sup> background demonstrated that this interval conferred increased lesion area. Transcriptomic analysis of bone marrow macrophages identified that expression of the Cyp4f13 gene, mapping to this locus, was highly associated with lesion area in an F2 cohort. AKR vs. DBA/2 macrophages had less Cyp4f13 mRNA expression, and their livers had lower leukotriene B4 (LTB4) 20-hydroxylase enzymatic activity. A Cyp4f13 knockout allele was bred onto the DBA/2 Apoe<sup>-/-</sup> background and this conferred less enzymatic activity, decreased macrophage migration in response to LTB4, and smaller aortic root atherosclerotic lesions. Allelic differences in the Cyp4f13 gene may in part be responsible for the Ath26 QTL conferring larger lesions in DBA/2 vs. AKR Apoe<sup>-/-</sup> mice.	Objective- We have shown that ABCA1 (ATP-binding cassette protein A1) mediates unfolding of the apoA1 (apolipoprotein A1) N-terminal helical hairpin during apoA1 lipidation. Others have shown that an acidic pH exposes the hydrophobic surface of apoA1. We postulated that the V-ATPase (vacuolar ATPase) proton pump facilitates apoA1 unfolding and promotes ABCA1-mediated cholesterol efflux. Approach and Results- We found that V-ATPase inhibitors dose-dependently decreased ABCA1-mediated cholesterol efflux to apoA1 in baby hamster kidney cells and RAW264.7 cells; and similarly, siRNA knockdown of ATP6V0C inhibited ABCA1-mediated cholesterol efflux to apoA1 in RAW264.7 cells. Although ABCA1 expression did not alter total cellular levels of V-ATPase, ABCA1 increased the cell surface levels of the V0A1 and V1E1 subunits of V-ATPase. We generated a fluorescein isothiocyanate/Alexa647 double-labeled fluorescent ratiometric apoA1 pH indicator whose fluorescein isothiocyanate/Alexa647 emission ratio decreased as the pH drops. We found that ABCA1 induction in baby hamster kidney cells led to acidification of the cell-associated apoA1 pH indicator, compared with control cells without ABCA1 expression. The V-ATPase inhibitor bafilomycin A1 dose-dependently inhibited the apoA1 pH shift in ABCA1-expressing cells, without affecting the levels of cell-associated apoA1. However, we were not able to detect ABCA1-mediated extracellular proton release. We showed that acidic pH facilitated apoA1 unfolding, apoA1 solubilization of phosphatidycholine:phosphatidyserine liposomes, and increased lipid fluidity of these liposomes. Conclusions- Our results support a model that ABCA1 recruits V-ATPase to the plasma membrane where V-ATPase mediates apoA1 acidification and membrane remodeling that promote apoA1 unfolding and ABCA1-mediated HDL (high-density lipoprotein) biogenesis and lipid efflux.	To determine if deficiency of CD6, a cell surface protein on lymphocytes that alters natural antibody production, increases atherosclerosis in ApoE-deficient mice fed a chow or a western-type diet. We compared cholesterol levels, IgM, B1a cells, and aortic root lesion areas in ApoE-deficient vs. CD6/ApoE double deficient mice. Feeding the high-fat western type diet increased all parameters, except for B1a cell numbers decreased. Sex also had an effect on many parameters with males having increased body weights, higher high density lipoprotein cholesterol, higher B1a cells, but smaller atherosclerotic lesions if chow fed mice; however, this sex effect on atherosclerosis was absent in mice fed the western-type diet. CD6 deficiency had no effect on atherosclerosis in both male and female mice on either diet. Thus, loss of CD6 on lymphocytes did not lead to expected reductions in B1a cells and protective IgM levels, and in turn did not alter atherosclerosis in mice.	Genome-wide association studies have identified 23 loci for atrial fibrillation (AF), but the mechanisms responsible for these associations, as well as the causal genes and genetic variants, remain undefined. To identify the effect of common genetic variants on gene expression that might explain the mechanisms linking genome-wide association loci with AF risk, we performed RNA sequencing of left atrial appendages from a biracial cohort of 265 subjects. Combining gene expression data with genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphism data, we found that approximately two-thirds of the expressed genes were regulated in cis by common genetic variants at a false discovery rate of &lt;0.05, defined as cis-expression quantitative trait loci. Twelve of 23 reported AF genome-wide association loci displayed genome-wide significant cis-expression quantitative trait loci, at PRRX1 (chromosome 1q24), SNRNP27 (1q24), CEP68 (2p14), FKBP7 (2q31), KCNN2 (5q22), FAM13B (5q31), CAV1 (7q31), ASAH1 (8p22), MYOZ1 (10q22), C11ORF45 (11q24), TBX5 (12q24), and SYNE2 (14q23), suggesting that altered expression of these genes plays a role in AF susceptibility. Allelic expression imbalance was used as an independent method to characterize the cis-control of gene expression. One thousand two hundred forty-eight of 5153 queried genes had cis-single nucleotide polymorphisms that significantly regulated allelic expression at a false discovery rate of &lt;0.05. We provide a genome-wide catalog of the genetic control of gene expression in human left atrial appendage. These data can be used to confirm the relevance of genome-wide association loci and to direct future functional studies to identify the genes and genetic variants responsible for complex diseases such as AF.	There are many differences in arterial diseases between men and women, including prevalence, clinical manifestations, treatments, and prognosis. The new policy of the National Institutes of Health, which requires the inclusion of sex as a biological variable for preclinical studies, aims to foster new mechanistic insights and to enhance our understanding of sex differences in human diseases. The purpose of this statement is to suggest guidelines for designing and reporting sex as a biological variable in animal models of atherosclerosis, thoracic and abdominal aortic aneurysms, and peripheral arterial disease. We briefly review sex differences of these human diseases and their animal models, followed by suggestions on experimental design and reporting of animal studies for these vascular pathologies.	Cholesterol metabolism is a dynamic process involving intracellular trafficking, cholesterol esterification, and cholesterol ester hydrolysis. Our objective was to identify genes that regulate macrophage cholesterol metabolism. We performed quantitative trait loci mapping of free and esterified cholesterol levels and the ratio of esterified to free cholesterol in acetylated low-density lipoprotein-loaded bone marrow-derived macrophages from an AKR×DBA/2 strain intercross. Ten distinct cholesterol modifier loci were identified, and bioinformatics was used to prioritize candidate genes. The strongest locus was located on distal chromosome 1, which we named Mcmm1 (macrophage cholesterol metabolism modifier 1). This locus harbors the Soat1 (sterol O-acyltransferase 1) gene, encoding Acyl-coenzyme A:cholesterol acyltransferase 1 (ACAT1), which esterifies free cholesterol. The parental AKR strain has an exon 2 deletion in Soat1, which leads to a 33 amino acid N-terminal truncation in ACAT1. CRISPR/Cas9 editing of DBA/2 embryonic stem cells was performed to replicate the AKR strain Soat1 exon 2 deletion, while leaving the remainder of the genome unaltered. DBA/2 stem cells and stem cells heterozygous and homozygous for the Soat1 exon 2 deletion were differentiated into macrophages and loaded with acetylated low-density lipoprotein. DBA/2 stem cell-derived macrophages accumulated less free cholesterol and more esterified cholesterol relative to cells heterozygous and homozygous for the Soat1 exon 2 deletion. A Soat1 deletion present in AKR mice, and resultant N-terminal ACAT1 truncation, was confirmed to be a significant modifier of macrophage cholesterol metabolism. Other Mcmm loci candidate genes were prioritized via bioinformatics.	The molecular mechanism by which ATP-binding cassette transporter A1 (ABCA1) mediates cellular binding of apolipoprotein A-I (apoA1) and nascent high-density lipoprotein (HDL) assembly is not well understood. To determine the cell surface lipid that mediates apoA1 binding to ABCA1-expressing cells and the role it plays in nascent HDL assembly. Using multiple biochemical and biophysical methods, we found that apoA1 binds specifically to phosphatidylinositol (4,5) bis-phosphate (PIP2). Flow cytometry and PIP2 reporter-binding assays demonstrated that ABCA1 led to PIP2 redistribution from the inner to the outer leaflet of the plasma membrane. Enzymatic cleavage of cell surface PIP2 or decreased cellular PIP2 by knockdown of phosphatidylinositol-5-phosphate 4-kinase impaired apoA1 binding and cholesterol efflux to apoA1. PIP2 also increased the spontaneous solubilization of phospholipid liposomes by apoA1. Using site-directed mutagenesis, we found that ABCA1's PIP2 and phosphatidylserine translocase activities are independent from each other. Furthermore, we discovered that PIP2 is effluxed from cells to apoA1, where it is associated with HDL in plasma, and that PIP2 on HDL is taken up by target cells in a scavenger receptor-BI-dependent manner. Mouse plasma PIP2 levels are apoA1 gene dosage-dependent and are &gt;1 μM in apoA1 transgenic mice. ABCA1 has PIP2 floppase activity, which increases cell surface PIP2 levels that mediate apoA1 binding and lipid efflux during nascent HDL assembly. We found that PIP2 itself is effluxed to apoA1 and it circulates on plasma HDL, where it can be taken up via the HDL receptor scavenger receptor-BI.	Genome-wide studies reveal that genetic variants at chromosome 4q25 constitute the strongest locus associated with atrial fibrillation, the most frequent arrhythmia. However, the mechanisms underlying this association are unknown. Our goal is to find and characterize left atrial-expressed transcripts in the chromosome 4q25 atrial fibrillation risk locus that may play a role in atrial fibrillation pathogenesis. RNA sequencing performed on human left/right pairs identified an intergenic long noncoding RNA adjacent to the PITX2 gene, which we have named PANCR (PITX2 adjacent noncoding RNA). In a human tissue screen, PANCR was expressed specifically in the left atria and eye and in no other chambers of the heart. The levels of PANCR and PITX2c RNAs were highly correlated in 233 human left atrial appendage samples. PANCR levels were not associated with either atrial rhythm status or the genotypes of the chromosome 4q25 atrial fibrillation risk variants. Both PANCR and PITX2c RNAs were induced early during differentiation of human embryonic stem cells into cardiomyocytes. Because long noncoding RNAs often control gene expression, we performed siRNA-mediated knockdown of PANCR, and this treatment repressed PITX2c expression and mimicked the effects of PITX2c knockdown on global mRNA and miRNA expression. Cell fractionation studies demonstrate that PANCR is primarily localized in the cytoplasm. PANCR and PITX2c are coordinately expressed early during cardiomyocyte differentiation from stem cells. PANCR knockdown decreased PITX2c expression in differentiated cardiomyocytes, altering the transcriptome in a manner similar to PITX2c knockdown.	HDL functions are impaired by myeloperoxidase (MPO), which selectively targets and oxidizes human apoA1. We previously found that the 4WF isoform of human apoA1, in which the four tryptophan residues are substituted with phenylalanine, is resistant to MPO-mediated loss of function. The purpose of this study was to generate 4WF apoA1 transgenic mice and compare functional properties of the 4WF and wild-type human apoA1 isoforms in vivo. Male mice had significantly higher plasma apoA1 levels than females for both isoforms of human apoA1, attributed to different production rates. With matched plasma apoA1 levels, 4WF transgenics had a trend for slightly less HDL-cholesterol versus human apoA1 transgenics. While 4WF transgenics had 31% less reverse cholesterol transport (RCT) to the plasma compartment, equivalent RCT to the liver and feces was observed. Plasma from both strains had similar ability to accept cholesterol and facilitate ex vivo cholesterol efflux from macrophages. Furthermore, we observed that 4WF transgenic HDL was partially (∼50%) protected from MPO-mediated loss of function while human apoA1 transgenic HDL lost all ABCA1-dependent cholesterol acceptor activity. In conclusion, the structure and function of HDL from 4WF transgenic mice was not different than HDL derived from human apoA1 transgenic mice. 	ABCA1 mediates the secretion of cellular free cholesterol and phospholipids to an extracellular acceptor, apolipoprotein AI, to form nascent high-density lipoprotein (HDL). Thus, ABCA1 is a key molecule in cholesterol homeostasis. Functional studies of certain Tangier disease mutations demonstrate that ABCA1 has multiple activities, including plasma membrane remodeling and apoAI binding to cell surface, which participate in nascent HDL biogenesis. Recent advances in our understanding of ABCA1 have demonstrated that ABCA1also mediates unfolding the N terminus of apoAI on the cell surface, followed by lipidation of apoAI and release of nascent HDL. Although ABCA1-mediated cholesterol efflux to apoAI can occur on the plasma membrane, the role of apoAI retroendocytosis during cholesterol efflux may play a role in macrophage foam cells that store cholesterol esters in cytoplasmic lipid droplets.
Southern, Brian	Inflammation and Immunity	26763235	26760523	29733782	28523001	26597012	24644284	23499373	NA	NA	NA	Pro-fibrotic mesenchymal cells are known to be the key effector cells of fibroproliferative disease, but the specific matrix signals and the induced cellular responses that drive the fibrogenic phenotype remain to be elucidated. The key mediators of the fibroblast fibrogenic phenotype were characterized using a novel assay system that measures fibroblast behavior in response to actual normal and fibrotic lung tissue. Using this system, we demonstrate that normal lung promotes fibroblast motility and polarization, while fibrotic lung immobilizes the fibroblast and promotes myofibroblast differentiation. These context-specific phenotypes are surprisingly both mediated by myosin II. The role of myosin II is supported by the observation of an increase in myosin phosphorylation and a change in intracellular distribution in fibroblasts on fibrotic lung, as compared with normal lung. Moreover, loss of myosin II activity has opposing effects on protrusive activity in fibroblasts on normal and fibrotic lung. Loss of myosin II also selectively inhibits myofibroblast differentiation in fibroblasts on fibrotic lung. Importantly, these findings are recapitulated by varying the matrix stiffness of polyacrylamide gels in the range of normal and fibrotic lung tissue. Comparison of the effects of myosin inhibition on lung tissue with that of polyacrylamide gels suggests that matrix fiber organization drives the fibroblast phenotype under conditions of normal/soft lung, while matrix stiffness drives the phenotype under conditions of fibrotic/stiff lung. This work defines novel roles for myosin II as a key regulatory effector molecule of the pro-fibrotic phenotype, in response to biophysical properties of the matrix. 	As long-term smokers undergo computed tomography (CT) to screen for lung cancer, cases of interstitial lung disease are being discovered incidentally. This article explains how to distinguish among the most common forms of interstitial lung disease in this situation and the role of primary care physicians in managing them. 	Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a specific type of fibrosing interstitial pneumonia of unknown cause. It is usually chronic and progressive, tends to affect mainly adults over age 60, has a predilection for men, and is often fatal. The condition is still underappreciated by pulmonologists and primary care physicians. This article attempts to close that information gap by reviewing the natural course of IPF and presenting an algorithmic approach to diagnosis and treatment based on evidence-based international guidelines. New treatment options are briefly discussed, to raise awareness of new medications that target pulmonary fibrosis.	Ion channels/pumps are essential regulators of organ homeostasis and disease. In the present review, we discuss the role of the mechanosensitive cation channel, transient receptor potential vanilloid 4 (TRPV4), in cytokine secretion and pulmonary inflammatory diseases such as asthma, cystic fibrosis (CF), and acute lung injury/acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). TRPV4 has been shown to play a role in lung diseases associated with lung parenchymal stretch or stiffness. TRPV4 indirectly mediates hypotonicity-induced smooth muscle contraction and airway remodeling in asthma. Further, the literature suggests that in CF TRPV4 may improve ciliary beat frequency enhancing mucociliary clearance, while at the same time increasing pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion/lung tissue injury. Currently it is understood that the role of TRPV4 in immune cell function and associated lung tissue injury/ARDS may depend on the injury stimulus. Uncovering the downstream mechanisms of TRPV4 action in pulmonary inflammatory diseases is likely important to understanding disease pathogenesis and may lead to novel therapeutics.	Macrophage phagocytosis of particles and pathogens is an essential aspect of innate host defense. Phagocytic function requires cytoskeletal rearrangements that depend on the interaction between macrophage surface receptors, particulates/pathogens, and the extracellular matrix. In the present study we determine the role of a mechanosensitive ion channel, transient receptor potential vanilloid 4 (TRPV4), in integrating the LPS and matrix stiffness signals to control macrophage phenotypic change for host defense and resolution from lung injury. We demonstrate that active TRPV4 mediates LPS-stimulated murine macrophage phagocytosis of nonopsonized particles (Escherichia coli) in vitro and opsonized particles (IgG-coated latex beads) in vitro and in vivo in intact mice. Intriguingly, matrix stiffness in the range seen in inflamed or fibrotic lung is required to sensitize the TRPV4 channel to mediate the LPS-induced increment in macrophage phagocytosis. Furthermore, TRPV4 is required for the LPS induction of anti-inflammatory/proresolution cytokines. These findings suggest that signaling through TRPV4, triggered by changes in extracellular matrix stiffness, cooperates with LPS-induced signals to mediate macrophage phagocytic function and lung injury resolution. These mechanisms are likely to be important in regulating macrophage function in the context of pulmonary infection and fibrosis. 	The urokinase-type plasminogen activator receptor (uPAR) is a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-linked membrane protein with no cytosolic domain that localizes to lipid raft microdomains. Our laboratory and others have documented that lung fibroblasts from patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) exhibit a hypermotile phenotype. This study was undertaken to elucidate the molecular mechanism whereby uPAR ligation with its cognate ligand, urokinase, induces a motile phenotype in human lung fibroblasts. We found that uPAR ligation with the urokinase receptor binding domain (amino-terminal fragment) leads to enhanced migration of fibroblasts on fibronectin in a protease-independent, lipid raft-dependent manner. Ligation of uPAR with the amino-terminal fragment recruited α5β1 integrin and the acylated form of the Src family kinase, Fyn, to lipid rafts. The biological consequences of this translocation were an increase in fibroblast motility and a switch of the integrin-initiated signal pathway for migration away from the lipid raft-independent focal adhesion kinase pathway and toward a lipid raft-dependent caveolin-Fyn-Shc pathway. Furthermore, an integrin homologous peptide as well as an antibody that competes with β1 for uPAR binding have the ability to block this effect. In addition, its relative insensitivity to cholesterol depletion suggests that the interactions of α5β1 integrin and uPAR drive the translocation of α5β1 integrin-acylated Fyn signaling complexes into lipid rafts upon uPAR ligation through protein-protein interactions. This signal switch is a novel pathway leading to the hypermotile phenotype of IPF patient-derived fibroblasts, seen with uPAR ligation. This uPAR dependent, fibrotic matrix-selective, and profibrotic fibroblast phenotype may be amenable to targeted therapeutics designed to ameliorate IPF. 	Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a progressive fibrotic lung disease whose underlying molecular mechanisms are largely unknown. Herein, we show that focal adhesion kinase-related nonkinase (FRNK) plays a key role in limiting the development of lung fibrosis. Loss of FRNK function in vivo leads to increased lung fibrosis in an experimental mouse model. The increase in lung fibrosis is confirmed at the histological, biochemical, and physiological levels. Concordantly, loss of FRNK function results in increased fibroblast migration and myofibroblast differentiation and activation of signaling proteins that drive these phenotypes. FRNK-deficient murine lung fibroblasts also have an increased capacity to produce and contract matrix proteins. Restoration of FRNK expression in vivo and in vitro reverses these profibrotic phenotypes. These data demonstrate the multiple antifibrotic actions of FRNK. More important, FRNK expression is down-regulated in human IPF, and down-regulation of FRNK in normal human lung fibroblasts recapitulates the profibrotic phenotype seen in FRNK-deficient cells. The effect of loss and gain of FRNK in the experimental model, when taken together with its down-regulation in human IPF, suggests that FRNK acts as an endogenous negative regulator of lung fibrosis by repressing multiple profibrotic responses.	NA	NA	NA
Stark, George	Cancer Biology	29581268	29440145	28620095	27852626	26337909	26195767	25767098	25217633	25071181	25028470	In response to IFNβ, the IL6 gene is activated, modestly at early times by ISGF3 (IRF9 plus tyrosine-phosphorylated STATs 1 and 2), and strongly at late times by U-ISGF3 (IRF9 plus U-STATs 1 and 2, lacking tyrosine phosphorylation). A classical IFN-stimulated response element (ISRE) at -1,513 to -1,526 in the human IL6 promoter is required. Pretreating cells with IFNβ or increasing the expression of U-STAT2 and IRF9 exogenously greatly enhances IL6 expression in response to the classical NF-κB activators IL1, TNF, and LPS. U-STAT2 binds tightly to IRF9, the DNA binding subunit of ISGF3, and also to the p65 subunit of NF-κB. Therefore, as shown by ChIP analyses, U-STAT2 can bridge the ISRE and κB elements in the IL6 promoter. In some cancer cells, the protumorigenic activation of STAT3 will be enhanced by the increased synthesis of IL6 that is facilitated by high expression of U-STAT2 and IRF9.	Traditional treatments of small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) with cisplatin, a standard-of-care therapy, spare the tumor-initiating cells (TIC) that mediate drug resistance. Here we report a novel therapeutic strategy that preferentially targets TICs in SCLC, in which cisplatin is combined with CBL0137, an inhibitor of the histone chaperone facilitates chromatin transcription (FACT), which is highly expressed in TICs. Combination of cisplatin and CBL0137 killed patient-derived and murine SCLC cell lines synergistically. In response to CBL0137 alone, TICs were more sensitive than non-TICs, in part, because CBL0137 increased expression of the tumor suppressor NOTCH1 by abrogating the binding of negative regulator SP3 to the NOTCH1 promoter, and in part because treatment decreased the high expression of stem cell transcription factors. The combination of cisplatin and CBL0137 greatly reduced the growth of a patient-derived xenograft in mice and also the growth of a syngeneic mouse SCLC tumor. Thus, CBL0137 can be a highly effective drug against SCLC, especially in combination with cisplatin.Significance: These findings reveal a novel therapeutic regimen for SCLC, combining cisplatin with an inhibitor that preferentially targets tumor-initiating cells. Cancer Res; 78(9); 2396-406. ©2018 AACR.	Many cytokines and all interferons activate members of a small family of kinases (the Janus kinases [JAKs]) and a slightly larger family of transcription factors (the signal transducers and activators of transcription [STATs]), which are essential components of pathways that induce the expression of specific sets of genes in susceptible cells. JAK-STAT pathways are required for many innate and acquired immune responses, and the activities of these pathways must be finely regulated to avoid major immune dysfunctions. Regulation is achieved through mechanisms that include the activation or induction of potent negative regulatory proteins, posttranslational modification of the STATs, and other modulatory effects that are cell-type specific. Mutations of JAKs and STATs can result in gains or losses of function and can predispose affected individuals to autoimmune disease, susceptibility to a variety of infections, or cancer. Here we review recent developments in the biochemistry, genetics, and biology of JAKs and STATs.	The transcription factor ISGF3, comprised of IRF9 and tyrosine-phosphorylated STATs 1 and 2, transmits the signal from the type I interferon receptor to the genome. We have discovered a novel phosphorylation of STAT2 on T387 that negatively regulates this response. In most untreated cell types, the majority of STAT2 is phosphorylated on T387 constitutively. In response to interferon-β, the T387A mutant of STAT2 is much more effective than wild-type STAT2 in mediating the expression of many interferon-stimulated genes, in protecting cells against virus infection, and in inhibiting cell growth. Interferon-β-treated cells expressing wild-type STAT2 contain much less ISGF3 capable of binding to an interferon-stimulated response element than do cells expressing T387A STAT2. T387 lies in a cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) consensus sequence, and CDK inhibitors decrease T387 phosphorylation. Using CDK inhibitors to reverse the constitutive inhibitory phosphorylation of T387 of U-STAT2 might enhance the efficacy of type I interferons in many different clinical settings.	In normal cells exposed to stress, the central transcription factor NF-κB is activated only transiently, to modulate the activation of downstream immune responses. However, in most cancers, NF-κB is abnormally activated constitutively, contributing thus to oncogenesis and tumor progression. Therefore, downregulating NF-κB activity is an important goal of cancer treatment. In order to control NF-κB activity therapeutically, it is helpful to understand the molecular mechanisms that normally govern its activation and how dysregulated NF-κB activity may aid the development of disease. Recent evidence from our laboratories and others indicates that, in addition to various posttranslational modifications of NF-κB that have been observed previously, including phosphorylation, ubiquitination, and acetylation, NF-κB can be methylated reversibly on lysine or arginine residues by histone-modifying enzymes, including lysine and arginine methyl transferases and demethylases. Furthermore, these methylations are required to activate many downstream genes. Interestingly, amplifications and mutations of several such enzymes have been linked to cancer. We propose that some of these mutations may alter the methylation not only of histones but also of NF-κB, making them attractive therapeutic targets.	Several components of the canonical pathway of response to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) are required for the EGF-dependent activation of NFκB. Conversely, the ability of Toll-like Receptor 4 (TLR4) to activate NFκB in response to LPS is impaired by down regulating EGF receptor (EGFR) expression or by using the EGFR inhibitor erlotinib. The LYN proto-oncogene (LYN) is required for signaling in both directions. LYN binds to the EGFR upon LPS stimulation, and erlotinib impairs this association. In mice, erlotinib blocks the LPS-induced expression of tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) and ameliorates LPS-induced endotoxity, revealing that EGFR is essential for LPS-induced signaling in vivo. 	Several transcription factors, including p53, NF-κB, and STAT3, are modified by the same enzymes that also modify histones, with important functional consequences. We have identified a previously unrecognized dimethylation of K49 of STAT3 that is crucial for the expression of many IL-6-dependent genes, catalyzed by the histone-modifying enzyme enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2). Loss of EZH2 is protumorigenic in leukemias, but its overexpression is protumorigenic in solid cancers. Connecting EZH2 to a functionally important methylation of STAT3, which is constitutively activated in many tumors, may help reveal the basis of the opposing roles of EZH2 in liquid and solid tumors and also may identify novel therapeutic opportunities. 	STAT3 is a pleiotropic transcription factor that is activated by the phosphorylation of tyrosine 705 in response to many cytokines and growth factors. STAT3 without Tyr-705 phosphorylation (U-STAT3) is also a potent transcription factor, and its concentration in cells increases greatly in response to STAT3 activation because the STAT3 gene can be driven by phosphorylated STAT3 dimers. We have now searched for post-translational modifications of U-STAT3 that might have a critical role in its function. An analysis by mass spectroscopy indicated that U-STAT3 is acetylated on Lys-685, and the integrity of Lys-685 is required for the expression of most U-STAT3-dependent genes. In contrast, we found only a very minor role for Lys-685 in gene expression induced in response to tyrosine-phosphorylated STAT3. U-STAT3 plays an important role in angiotensin II-induced gene expression and in the consequent development of cardiac hypertrophy and dysfunction. Mutation of Lys-685 inhibits this function of STAT3, providing new information on the role of U-STAT3 in augmenting the development of heart failure. 	Activation of nuclear factor κB (NFκB) is a central event in the responses of normal cells to inflammatory signals, and the abnormal constitutive activation of NFκB is important for the survival of most cancer cells. In nonmalignant human cells, EGF stimulates robust activation of NFκB. The kinase activity of the EGF receptor (EGFR) is required, because the potent and specific inhibitor erlotinib blocks the response. Down-regulating EGFR expression or inhibiting EGFR with erlotinib impairs constitutive NFκB activation in several different types of cancer cells and, conversely, increased activation of NFκB leads to erlotinib resistance in these cells. We conclude that EGF is an important mediator of NFκB activation in cancer cells. To explore the mechanism, we selected an erlotinib-resistant cell line in which the guanine nucleotide exchange factor Son of Sevenless 1 (SOS1), well known to be important for EGF-dependent signaling to MAP kinases, is overexpressed. Increased expression of SOS1 increases NFκB activation in several different types of cancer cells, and ablation of SOS1 inhibits EGF-induced NFκB activation in these cells, indicating that SOS1 is a functional component of the pathway connecting EGFR to NFκB activation. Importantly, the guanine nucleotide exchange activity of SOS1 is not required for NFκB activation. 	Erlotinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor approved for the treatment of patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). In these patients, erlotinib prolongs survival but its benefit remains modest because many tumors express wild-type (wt) EGFR or develop a second-site EGFR mutation. To test drug combinations that could improve the efficacy of erlotinib, we combined erlotinib with quinacrine, which inhibits the FACT (facilitates chromatin transcription) complex that is required for NF-κB transcriptional activity. In A549 (wtEGFR), H1975 (EGFR-L858R/T790M), and H1993 (MET amplification) NSCLC cells, this drug combination was highly synergistic, as quantified by Chou-Talalay combination indices, and slowed xenograft tumor growth. At a sub-IC50 but more clinically attainable concentration of erlotinib, quinacrine, alone or in combination with erlotinib, significantly inhibited colony formation and induced cell-cycle arrest and apoptosis. Quinacrine decreased the level of active FACT subunit SSRP1 and suppressed NF-κB-dependent luciferase activity. Knockdown of SSRP1 decreased cell growth and sensitized cells to erlotinib. Moreover, transcriptomic profiling showed that quinacrine or combination treatment significantly affected cell-cycle-related genes that contain binding sites for transcription factors that regulate SSRP1 target genes. As potential biomarkers of drug combination efficacy, we identified genes that were more strongly suppressed by the combination than by single treatment, and whose increased expression predicted poorer survival in patients with lung adenocarcinoma. This preclinical study shows that quinacrine overcomes erlotinib resistance by inhibiting FACT and cell-cycle progression, and supports a clinical trial testing erlotinib alone versus this combination in advanced NSCLC.
Stenina Adognravi, Olga	Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences	29138119	28481870	26139464	26018675	24589453	24582666	23892609	22362893	21148424	20884877	Thrombospondin-4 (TSP-4) belongs to the thrombospondin protein family that consists of five highly homologous members. A number of novel functions have been recently assigned to TSP-4 in cardiovascular and nervous systems, inflammation, cancer, and the motor unit, which have attracted attention to this extracellular matrix (ECM) protein. These newly discovered functions set TSP-4 apart from other thrombospondins. For example, TSP-4 promotes angiogenesis while other TSPs either prevent it or have no effect on new blood vessel growth; TSP-4 reduces fibrosis and collagen production while TSP-1 and TSP-2 promote fibrosis in several organs; unlike other TSPs, TSP-4 appears to have some structural functions in ECM. The current information about TSP-4 functions in different organs and physiological systems suggests that this evolutionary conserved protein is a major regulator of the extracellular matrix (ECM) organization and production and tissue remodeling during the embryonic development and response to injury. In this review article, we summarize the properties and functions of TSP-4 and discuss its role in tissue remodeling.	TGF-β is a multifunctional cytokine affecting many cell types and implicated in tissue remodeling processes. Due to its many functions and cell-specific effects, the consequences of TGF-β signaling are process-and stage-dependent, and it is not uncommon that TGF-β exerts distinct and sometimes opposing effects on a disease progression depending on the stage and on the pathological changes associated with the stage. The mechanisms underlying cell- and process-specific effects of TGF-β are poorly understood. We are describing a novel pathway that mediates induction of angiogenesis in response to TGF-β1. We found that in endothelial cells (EC) thrombospondin-4 (TSP-4), a secreted extracellular matrix (ECM) protein, is upregulated in response to TGF-β1 and mediates the effects of TGF-β1 on angiogenesis. Upregulation of TSP-4 does not require the synthesis of new protein, is not caused by decreased secretion of TSP-4, and is mediated by activation of SMAD3. Using Thbs4<sup>-/-</sup> mice and TSP-4 shRNA, we found that TSP-4 mediated pro-angiogenic functions in cultured EC and angiogenesis in vivo in response to TGF-β1. We observed~3-fold increases in tumor mass and levels of angiogenesis markers in animals injected with TGF-β1, and these effects did not occur in Thbs4<sup>-/-</sup> animals. Injections of an inhibitor of TGF-β1 signaling SB-431542 also decreased the weights of tumors and cancer angiogenesis. Our results from in vivo angiogenesis models and cultured EC document that TSP-4 mediates upregulation of angiogenesis by TGF-β1. Upregulation of pro-angiogenic TSP-4 and selective effects of TSP-4 on EC may contribute to stimulation of tumor growth by TGF-β despite the inhibition of cancer cell proliferation.	Thrombospondin-4 (TSP-4) is 1 of the 5 members of the thrombospondin protein family. TSP-1 and TSP-2 are potent antiangiogenic proteins. However, angiogenic properties of the 3 other TSPs, which do not contain the domains associated with the antiangiogeneic activity of TSP-1 and TSP-2, have not been explored. In our previous studies, we found that TSP-4 is expressed in the vascular matrix of blood vessels of various sizes and is especially abundant in capillaries. We sought to identify the function of TSP-4 in the regulation of angiogenesis. The effect of TSP-4 in in vivo angiogenesis models and its effect on angiogenesis-related properties in cultured cells were assessed using Thbs4(-/-) mice, endothelial cells (EC) derived from these mice, and recombinant TSP-4. Angiogenesis was decreased in Thbs4(-/-) mice compared with wild-type mice. TSP-4 was detected in the lumen of the growing blood vessels. Mice expressing the P387 TSP-4 variant, which was previously associated with coronary artery disease and found to be more active in its cellular interactions, displayed greater angiogenesis compared with A387 form. Lung EC from Thbs4(-/-) mice exhibited decreased adhesion, migration, and proliferation capacities compared with EC from wild-type mice. Recombinant TSP-4 promoted proliferation and the migration of EC. Integrin α2 and gabapentin receptor α2δ-1 were identified as receptors involved in regulation of EC adhesion, migration, and proliferation by TSP-4. TSP-4, an extracellular matrix protein previously associated with tissue remodeling, is now demonstrated to possess proangiogenic activity.	Abnormal angiogenesis in multiple tissues is a key characteristic of the vascular complications of diabetes. However, angiogenesis may be increased in one tissue but decreased in another in the same patient at the same time point in the disease. The mechanisms of aberrant angiogenesis in diabetes are not understood. There are no selective therapeutic approaches to target increased neovascularization without affecting physiologic angiogenesis and angiogenesis in ischemic tissues. We recently reported a novel miRNA-dependent pathway that up-regulates angiogenesis in response to hyperglycemia in a cell- and tissue-specific manner. The goal of the work described herein was to test whether systemic administration of an antagonist of miR-467 would prevent hyperglycemia-induced local angiogenesis in a tissue-specific manner. We examined the effect of the antagonist on hyperglycemia-induced tumor growth and angiogenesis and on skin wound healing in mouse models of diabetes. Our data demonstrated that the systemic injection of the antagonist prevented hyperglycemia-induced angiogenesis and growth of mouse and human breast cancer tumors, where the miR-467 pathway was active in hyperglycemia. In tissues where the miR-467-dependent mechanism was not activated by hyperglycemia, there was no effect of the antagonist: the systemic injection did not affect skin wound healing or the growth of prostate tumors. The data show that systemic administration of the miR-467 antagonist could be a breakthrough approach in the treatment and prevention of diabetes-associated breast cancer in a tissue-specific manner without affecting physiologic angiogenesis and angiogenesis in ischemic tissues.	Thrombospondins (TSPs) are multifunctional proteins that are deposited in the extracellular matrix where they directly affect the function of vascular and other cell types. TSP-4, one of the 5 TSP family members, is expressed abundantly in tendon and muscle. We have examined the effect of TSP-4 deficiency on tendon collagen and skeletal muscle morphology and function. In Thbs4(-/-) mice, tendon collagen fibrils are significantly larger than in wild-type mice, and there is no compensatory over-expression of TSP-3 and TSP-5, the two TSPs most highly homologous to TSP-4, in the deficient mice. TSP-4 is expressed in skeletal muscle, and higher levels of TSP-4 protein are associated with the microvasculature of red skeletal muscle with high oxidative metabolism. Lack of TSP-4 in medial soleus, red skeletal muscle with predominant oxidative metabolism, is associated with decreased levels of several specific glycosaminoglycan modifications, decreased expression of a TGFβ receptor beta-glycan, decreased activity of lipoprotein lipase, which associates with vascular cell surfaces by binding to glycosaminoglycans, and decreased uptake of VLDL. The soleus muscle is smaller and hind- and fore-limb grip strength is reduced in Thbs4(-/-) mice compared to wild-type mice. These observations suggest that TSP-4 regulates the composition of the ECM at major sites of its deposition, tendon and muscle, and the absence of TSP-4 alters the organization, composition and physiological functions of these tissues. 	Increasing evidence suggests critical functions of thrombospondins (TSPs) in a variety of physiological and pathological processes. With the growing understanding of the importance of these matricellular proteins, the need to understand the mechanisms of regulation of their expression and potential approaches to modulate their levels is also increasing. The regulation of TSP expression is multi-leveled, cell- and tissue-specific, and very precise. However, the knowledge of mechanisms modulating the levels of TSPs is fragmented and incomplete. This review discusses the known mechanisms of regulation of TSP levels and the gaps in our knowledge that prevent us from developing strategies to modulate the expression of these physiologically important proteins. 	Thrombospondins (TSPs) are secreted extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins from TSP family, which consists of five homologous members. They share a complex domain structure and have numerous binding partners in ECM and multiple cell surface receptors. Information that has emerged over the past decade identifies TSPs as important mediators of cellular homeostasis, assigning new important roles in cardiovascular pathology to these proteins. Recent studies of the functions of TSP in the cardiovascular system, diabetes and aging, which placed several TSPs in a position of critical regulators, demonstrated the involvement of these proteins in practically every aspect of cardiovascular pathophysiology related to atherosclerosis: inflammation, immunity, leukocyte recruitment and function, function of vascular cells, angiogenesis, and responses to hypoxia, ischemia and hyperglycemia. TSPs are also critically important in the development and ultimate outcome of the complications associated with atherosclerosis--myocardial infarction, and heart hypertrophy and failure. Their expression and significance increase with age and with the progression of diabetes, two major contributors to the development of atherosclerosis and its complications. This overview of recent literature examines the latest information on the newfound functions of TSPs that emphasize the importance of ECM in cardiovascular homeostasis and pathology. The functions of TSPs in myocardium, vasculature, vascular complications of diabetes, aging and immunity are discussed.	Thrombospondin-4 (TSP-4) expression increases dramatically in hypertrophic and failing hearts in rodent models and in humans. The aim of this study was to address the function of TSP-4 in the heart. TSP-4-knockout (Thbs4(-/-)) and wild-type (WT) mice were subjected to transverse aortic constriction (TAC) to increase left ventricle load. After 2 wk, Thbs4(-/-) mice had a significantly higher heart weight/body weight ratio than WT mice. The additional increase in the heart weight in TAC Thbs4(-/-) mice was due to increased deposition of extracellular matrix (ECM). The levels of interstitial collagens were higher in the knockout mice, but the size of cardiomyocytes and apoptosis in the myocardium was unaffected by TSP-4 deficiency, suggesting that increased reactive fibrosis was the primary cause of the higher heart weight. The increased ECM deposition in Thbs4(-/-) mice was accompanied by changes in functional parameters of the heart and decreased vessel density. The expression of inflammatory and fibrotic genes known to be influential in myocardial remodeling changed as a result of TSP-4 deficiency in vivo and as a result of incubation of cells with recombinant TSP-4 in vitro. Thus, TSP-4 is involved in regulating the adaptive responses of the heart to pressure overload, suggesting its important role in myocardial remodeling. Our study showed a direct influence of TSP-4 on heart function and to identify the mechanism of its effects on heart remodeling.	Vascular diabetic complications are associated with abnormal extracellular matrix and dysfunction of vascular cells, which later result in aberrant angiogenesis and development of atherosclerotic lesions. The tissue and cell specificity of the effects of high glucose are well recognized, but the underlying cell type-specific molecular mechanisms controlled by glucose are still unclear. We sought to identify cell type-specific mechanisms by which high glucose regulates transcription of genes in vascular cells. Thrombospondin-1 is a potent antiangiogenic protein associated with development of several diabetic complications and regulated by high glucose in multiple cell types. We report that distinct cell type-specific mechanisms regulate thrombospondin-1 gene (THBS1) transcription in endothelial cells (ECs) and vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) in response to high glucose: although a proximal fragment of 280 nucleotides is sufficient to drive transcription in ECs, THBS1 was regulated cooperatively by interaction between proximal (-272 to -275) and distal (-1016 to -1019) promoter elements in VSMCs. Transcription factors activated by high glucose in VSMCs were cell type-specific. The formation of a single complex interacting with both distal and proximal glucose-responsive elements of THBS1 promoter in VSMCs was confirmed using gel-shift assays, binding sequence decoy oligomers, and specific mutant promoter fragments. Transcriptional response of vascular cells to high glucose is cell type-specific and involves activation of distinct transcription factors, providing a basis for tissue-specific changes of vasculature in diabetics.	Thrombospondin (TSP)-4 is an extracellular protein that has been linked to several cardiovascular pathologies. However, a role for TSP-4 in vascular wall biology remains unknown. We have examined the effects of TSP-4 gene (Thbs4) knockout on the development of atherosclerotic lesions in ApoE(-/-) mice. Deficiency in TSP-4 reduced atherosclerotic lesions: at 20 weeks of age, the size of the aortic root lesions in Thbs4(-/-)/ApoE(-/-) mice was decreased by 48% in females and by 39% in males on chow diets; in mice on Western diets, lesions in the descending aorta were reduced by 30% in females and 33% in males. In ApoE(-/-) mice, TSP-4 was abundant in vessel areas prone to lesion development and in the matrix of the lesions themselves. TSP-4 deficiency reduced the number of macrophages in lesions in all groups by ≥ 2-fold. In addition, TSP-4 deficiency reduced endothelial cell activation (expression of surface adhesion molecules) and other markers of inflammation in the vascular wall (decreased production of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 and activation of p38). In vitro, both the adhesion and migration of wild-type macrophages increased in the presence of purified recombinant TSP-4 in a dose-dependent manner (up to 7- and 4.7-fold, respectively). These responses led to p38-MAPkinase activation and were dependent on β(2) and β(3) integrins, which recognize TSP-4 as a ligand. TSP-4 is abundant in atherosclerotic lesions and in areas prone to development of lesions and may influence the recruitment of macrophages by activating endothelial cells and directly interacting with macrophages to increase their adhesion and migration. Our observations suggest an important role for this matricellular protein in the local regulation of inflammation associated with atherogenesis.
Stuehr, Dennis	Inflammation and Immunity	31170354	30926606	30402946	30012884	29414777	29358373	28232486	27613870	27760279	27071111	Myoglobin (Mb) maturation involves heme incorporation as a final step. We investigated a role for heat shock protein (hsp) 90 in Mb maturation in C2C12 skeletal muscle myoblasts and cell lines. We found the following: 1) Hsp90 directly interacts preferentially with heme-free Mb both in purified form and in cells. 2) Hsp90 drives heme insertion into apoprotein-Mb in an ATP-dependent process. 3) During differentiation of C2C12 myoblasts into myotubes, the apo-Mb-hsp90 complex associates with 5 cell cochaperons, Hsp70, activator of hsp90 ATPase protein 1 (Aha1), alanyl-tRNA synthetase domain containing 1 (Aarsd1), cell division cycle 37 (Cdc37), and stress induced phosphoprotein 1 (STIP1) in a pattern that is consistent with their enabling Mb maturation. 4) Mb heme insertion was significantly increased in cells that had a functional soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC)-cGMP signaling pathway and was diminished upon small interfering RNA knockdown of sGCβ1 or upon overexpression of a phosphodiesterase to prevent cGMP buildup. Together, our findings suggest that hsp90 works in concert with cochaperons (Hsp70, Aha1, Aarsd1, STIP1, and Cdc37) and an active sGC-cGMP signaling pathway to promote heme insertion into immature apo-Mb, and thus generate functional Mb during muscle myotube formation. This fills gaps in our understanding and suggests new ways to potentially control these processes.-Ghosh, A., Dai, Y., Biswas, P., Stuehr, D. J. Myoglobin maturation is driven by the hsp90 chaperone machinery and by soluble guanylyl cyclase.	Nitric oxide (NO) synthases (NOSs) catalyze the formation of NO from l-arginine. We have shown previously that the NOS enzyme catalytic cycle involves a large number of reactions but can be characterized by a global model with three main rate-limiting steps. These are the rate of heme reduction by the flavin domain (kr ), of dissociation of NO from the ferric heme-NO complex (kd ), and of oxidation of the ferrous heme-NO complex (kox). The reaction of oxygen with the ferrous heme-NO species is part of a futile cycle that does not directly contribute to NO synthesis but allows a population of inactive enzyme molecules to return to the catalytic cycle, and thus, enables a steady-state NO synthesis rate. Previously, we have reported that this reaction does involve the reaction of oxygen with the NO-bound ferrous heme complex, but the mechanistic details of the reaction, that could proceed via either an inner-sphere or an outer-sphere mechanism, remained unclear. Here, we present additional experiments with neuronal NOS (nNOS) and inducible NOS (iNOS) variants (nNOS W409F and iNOS K82A and V346I) and computational methods to study how changes in heme access and electronics affect the reaction. Our results support an inner-sphere mechanism and indicate that the particular heme-thiolate environment of the NOS enzymes can stabilize an N-bound Fe<sup>III</sup>-N(O)OO<sup>-</sup> intermediate species and thereby catalyze this reaction, which otherwise is not observed or favorable in proteins like globins that contain a histidine-coordinated heme.	This review briefly summarizes what was known about NOS enzymology at the time of the Nobel Prize award in 1998 and then discusses from the author's perspective some of the advances in NOS enzymology over the subsequent 20 years, focused on five aspects: the maturation process of NOS enzymes and its regulation; the mechanism of NO synthesis; the redox roles played by the 6R-tetrahydrobiopterin cofactor; the role of protein conformational behaviour in enabling NOS electron transfer and its regulation by NOS structural elements and calmodulin, and the catalytic cycling pathways of NOS enzymes and their influence on NOS activity. LINKED ARTICLES: This article is part of a themed section on Nitric Oxide 20 Years from the 1998 Nobel Prize. To view the other articles in this section visit http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/bph.v176.2/issuetoc.	Cellular heme is thought to be distributed between a pool of sequestered heme that is tightly bound within hemeproteins and a labile heme pool required for signaling and transfer into proteins. A heme chaperone that can hold and allocate labile heme within cells has long been proposed but never been identified. Here, we show that the glycolytic protein glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) fulfills this role by acting as an essential repository and allocator of bioavailable heme to downstream protein targets. We identified a conserved histidine in GAPDH that is needed for its robust heme binding both in vitro and in mammalian cells. Substitution of this histidine, and the consequent decreases in GAPDH heme binding, antagonized heme delivery to both cytosolic and nuclear hemeprotein targets, including inducible nitric-oxide synthase (iNOS) in murine macrophages and the nuclear transcription factor Hap1 in yeast, even though this GAPDH variant caused cellular levels of labile heme to rise dramatically. We conclude that by virtue of its heme-binding property, GAPDH binds and chaperones labile heme to create a heme pool that is bioavailable to downstream proteins. Our finding solves a fundamental question in cell biology and provides a new foundation for exploring heme homeostasis in health and disease.	NO synthase (NOS) enzymes perform interdomain electron transfer reactions during catalysis that may rely on complementary charge interactions at domain-domain interfaces. Guided by our previous results and a computer-generated domain-docking model, we assessed the importance of cross-domain charge interactions in the FMN-to-heme electron transfer in neuronal NOS (nNOS). We reversed the charge of three residues (Glu-762, Glu-816, and Glu-819) that form an electronegative triad on the FMN domain and then individually reversed the charges of three electropositive residues (Lys-423, Lys-620, and Lys-660) on the oxygenase domain (NOSoxy), to potentially restore a cross-domain charge interaction with the triad, but in reversed polarity. Charge reversal of the triad completely eliminated heme reduction and NO synthesis in nNOS. These functions were partly restored by the charge reversal at oxygenase residue Lys-423, but not at Lys-620 or Lys-660. Full recovery of heme reduction was probably muted by an accompanying change in FMN midpoint potential that made electron transfer to the heme thermodynamically unfavorable. Our results provide direct evidence that cross-domain charge pairing is required for the FMN-to-heme electron transfer in nNOS. The unique ability of charge reversal at position 423 to rescue function indicates that it participates in an essential cross-domain charge interaction with the FMN domain triad. This supports our domain-docking model and suggests that it may depict a productive electron transfer complex formed during nNOS catalysis.	Maturation of adult (α2β2) and fetal hemoglobin (α2γ2) tetramers requires that heme be incorporated into each globin. While hemoglobin alpha (Hb-α) relies on a specific erythroid chaperone (alpha Hb-stabilizing protein, AHSP), the other chaperones that may help mature the partner globins (Hb-γ or Hb-β) in erythroid cells, or may enable nonerythroid cells to express mature Hb, are unknown. We investigated a role for heat-shock protein 90 (hsp90) in Hb maturation in erythroid precursor cells that naturally express Hb-α with either Hb-γ (K562 and HiDEP-1 cells) or Hb-β (HUDEP-2) and in nonerythroid cell lines that either endogenously express Hb-αβ (RAW and A549) or that we transfected to express the globins. We found the following: (i) AHSP and hsp90 associate with distinct globin partners in their immature heme-free states (AHSP with apo-Hbα, and hsp90 with apo-Hbβ or Hb-γ) and that hsp90 does not associate with mature Hb. (ii) Hsp90 stabilizes the apo-globins and helps to drive their heme insertion reactions, as judged by pharmacologic hsp90 inhibition or by coexpression of an ATP-ase defective hsp90. (iii) In nonerythroid cells, heme insertion into all globins became hsp90-dependent, which may explain how mixed Hb tetramers can mature in cells that do not express AHSP. Together, our findings uncover a process in which hsp90 first binds to immature, heme-free Hb-γ or Hb-β, drives their heme insertion process, and then dissociates to allow their heterotetramer formation with Hb-α. Thus, in driving heme insertion, hsp90 works in concert with AHSP to generate functional Hb tetramers during erythropoiesis.	The signaling molecule nitric oxide (NO) is synthesized in animals by structurally related NO synthases (NOSs), which contain NADPH/FAD- and FMN-binding domains. During catalysis, NADPH-derived electrons transfer into FAD and then distribute into the FMN domain for further transfer to internal or external heme groups. Conformational freedom of the FMN domain is thought to be essential for the electron transfer (ET) reactions in NOSs. To directly examine this concept, we utilized a &quot;Cys-lite&quot; neuronal NOS flavoprotein domain and substituted Cys for two residues (Glu-816 and Arg-1229) forming a salt bridge between the NADPH/FAD and FMN domains in the conformationally closed structure to allow cross-domain disulfide bond formation or cross-linking by bismaleimides of various lengths. The disulfide bond cross-link caused a ≥95% loss of cytochrome c reductase activity that was reversible with DTT treatment, whereas graded cross-link lengthening gradually increased activity, thus defining the conformational constraints in the catalytic process. We used spectroscopic and stopped-flow techniques to further investigate how the changes in FMN domain conformational freedom impact the following: (i) the NADPH interaction; (ii) kinetics of electron loading (flavin reduction); (iii) stabilization of open versus closed conformational forms in two different flavin redox states; (iv) reactivity of the reduced FMN domain toward cytochrome c; (v) response to calmodulin binding; and (vi) the rates of interflavin ET and the FMN domain conformational dynamics. Together, our findings help explain how the spatial and temporal behaviors of the FMN domain impact catalysis by the NOS flavoprotein domain and how these behaviors are governed to enable electron flow through the enzyme.	The activity of endothelial NO synthase (eNOS) is triggered by calmodulin (CaM) binding and is often further regulated by phosphorylation at several positions in the enzyme. Phosphorylation at Ser<sup>1179</sup> occurs in response to diverse physiologic stimuli and increases the NO synthesis and cytochrome c reductase activities of eNOS, thereby enhancing its participation in biological signal cascades. Despite its importance, the mechanism by which Ser<sup>1179</sup> phosphorylation increases eNOS activity is not understood. To address this, we used stopped-flow spectroscopy and computer modeling approaches to determine how the phosphomimetic mutation (S1179D) may impact electron flux through eNOS and the conformational behaviors of its reductase domain, both in the absence and presence of bound CaM. We found that S1179D substitution in CaM-free eNOS had multiple effects; it increased the rate of flavin reduction, altered the conformational equilibrium of the reductase domain, and increased the rate of its conformational transitions. We found these changes were equivalent in degree to those caused by CaM binding to wild-type eNOS, and the S1179D substitution together with CaM binding caused even greater changes in these parameters. The modeling indicated that the changes caused by the S1179D substitution, despite being restricted to the reductase domain, are sufficient to explain the stimulation of both the cytochrome c reductase and NO synthase activities of eNOS. This helps clarify how Ser<sup>1179</sup> phosphorylation regulates eNOS and provides a foundation to compare its regulation by other phosphorylation events.	The nitric oxide synthases (NOS) catalyze a two-step oxidation of l-arginine (Arg) to generate NO. In the first step, O2 activation involves one electron being provided to the heme by an enzyme-bound 6R-tetrahydro-l-biopterin cofactor (H4 B), and the H4 B radical must be reduced back to H4 B in order for NOS to continue catalysis. Although an NADPH-derived electron is used to reduce the H4 B radical, how this occurs is unknown. We hypothesized that the NOS flavoprotein domain might reduce the H4 B radical by utilizing the NOS heme porphyrin as a conduit to deliver the electron. This model predicts that factors influencing NOS heme reduction should also influence the extent and rate of H4 B radical reduction in kind. To test this, we utilized single catalytic turnover and stop-freeze methods, along with electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy, to measure the rate and extent of reduction of the 5-methyl-H4 B radical formed in neuronal NOS (nNOS) during Arg hydroxylation. We used several nNOS variants that supported either a slower or faster than normal rate of ferric heme reduction. We found that the rates and extents of nNOS heme reduction correlated well with the rates and extents of 5-methyl-H4 B radical reduction among the various nNOS enzymes. This supports a model where the heme porphyrin transfers an electron from the NOS flavoprotein to the H4 B radical formed during catalysis, revealing that the heme plays a dual role in catalyzing O2 activation or electron transfer at distinct points in the reaction cycle.	Asthma is defined by airway inflammation and hyperresponsiveness, and contributes to morbidity and mortality worldwide. Although bronchodilation is a cornerstone of treatment, current bronchodilators become ineffective with worsening asthma severity. We investigated an alternative pathway that involves activating the airway smooth muscle enzyme, soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC). Activating sGC by its natural stimulant nitric oxide (NO), or by pharmacologic sGC agonists BAY 41-2272 and BAY 60-2770, triggered bronchodilation in normal human lung slices and in mouse airways. Both BAY 41-2272 and BAY 60-2770 reversed airway hyperresponsiveness in mice with allergic asthma and restored normal lung function. The sGC from mouse asthmatic lungs displayed three hallmarks of oxidative damage that render it NO-insensitive, and identical changes to sGC occurred in human lung slices or in human airway smooth muscle cells when given chronic NO exposure to mimic the high NO in asthmatic lung. Our findings show how allergic inflammation in asthma may impede NO-based bronchodilation, and reveal that pharmacologic sGC agonists can achieve bronchodilation despite this loss. 
Suh, Hoonkyo	Neurosciences	30507615	30498432	27759049	27300262	26365148	19575663	18371391	30967683	30655503	29255203	We investigated how pathological changes in newborn hippocampal dentate granule cells (DGCs) lead to epilepsy. Using a rabies virus-mediated retrograde tracing system and a designer receptors exclusively activated by designer drugs (DREADD) chemogenetic method, we demonstrated that newborn hippocampal DGCs are required for the formation of epileptic neural circuits and the induction of spontaneous recurrent seizures (SRS). A rabies virus-mediated mapping study revealed that aberrant circuit integration of hippocampal newborn DGCs formed excessive de novo excitatory connections as well as recurrent excitatory loops, allowing the hippocampus to produce, amplify, and propagate excessive recurrent excitatory signals. In epileptic mice, DREADD-mediated-specific suppression of hippocampal newborn DGCs dramatically reduced epileptic spikes and SRS in an inducible and reversible manner. Conversely, specific activation of hippocampal newborn DGCs increased both epileptic spikes and SRS. Our study reveals an essential role for hippocampal newborn DGCs in the formation and function of epileptic neural circuits, providing critical insights into DGCs as a potential therapeutic target for treating epilepsy.	Using a lentivirus-mediated labeling method, we investigated whether the adult hippocampus retains long-lasting, self-renewing neural stem cells (NSCs). We first showed that a single injection of a lentiviral vector expressing a green fluorescent protein (LV PGK-GFP) into the subgranular zone (SGZ) of the adult hippocampus enabled an efficient, robust, and long-term marking of self-renewing NSCs and their progeny. Interestingly, a subset of labeled cells showed the ability to proliferate multiple times and give rise to Sox2<sup>+</sup> cells, clearly suggesting the ability of NSCs to self-renew for an extensive period of time (up to 6 months). In addition, using GFP<sup>+</sup> cells isolated from the SGZ of mice that received a LV PGK-GFP injection 3 months earlier, we demonstrated that some GFP<sup>+</sup> cells displayed the essential properties of NSCs, such as self-renewal and multipotency. Furthermore, we investigated the plasticity of NSCs in a perforant path transection, which has been shown to induce astrocyte formation in the molecular layer of the hippocampus. Our lentivirus (LV)-mediated labeling study revealed that hippocampal NSCs are not responsible for the burst of astrocyte formation, suggesting that signals released from the injured perforant path did not influence NSC fate determination. Therefore, our studies showed that a gene delivery system using LVs is a unique method to be used for understanding the complex nature of NSCs and may have translational impact in gene therapy by efficiently targeting NSCs.	Hippocampus-dependent cognitive and emotional function appears to be regionally dissociated along the dorsoventral (DV) axis of the hippocampus. Recent observations that adult hippocampal neurogenesis plays a critical role in both cognition and emotion raised an interesting question whether adult neurogenesis within specific subregions of the hippocampus contributes to these distinct functions. We examined the regional-specific and cell type-specific effects of fluoxetine, which requires adult hippocampal neurogenesis to function as an antidepressant, on the proliferation of hippocampal neural stem cells (NSCs). Fluoxetine specifically increased proliferation of NSCs located in the ventral region of the hippocampus while the mitotic index of NSCs in the dorsal portion of the hippocampus remained unaltered. Moreover, within the ventral hippocampus, type II NSC and neuroblast populations specifically responded to fluoxetine, showing increased proliferation; however, proliferation of type I NSCs was unchanged in response to fluoxetine. Activation or inhibition of serotonin receptor 1A (5-HTR1A) recapitulated or abolished the effect of fluoxetine on proliferation of type II NSCs and neuroblast populations in the ventral hippocampus. Our study showed that the effect of fluoxetine on proliferation is dependent upon the type and the position of the NSCs along the DV axis of the hippocampus.	The role of telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) has been extensively investigated in the contexts of aging and cancer. Interestingly, Tert(-/-) mice exhibit additional but unexpected aggressive and depressive behaviors, implying the potential involvement of TERT function in mood control. Our conditional rescue experiments revealed that the depressive and aggressive behaviors of Tert(-/-) mice originate from Tert deficiency in two distinct brain structures. Reactivation of Tert in the hippocampus was sufficient to normalize the depressive but not the aggressive behaviors of Tert(-/-) mice. Conversely, re-expression of Tert in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) reversed the aggressive but not the depressive behavior of Tert(-/-) mice. Mechanistically, decreased serotonergic signaling and increased nitric oxide (NO) transmission in the hippocampus transduced Tert deficiency into depression as evidenced by our observation that the infusion of a pharmacological agonist for serotonin receptor 1a (5-HTR1A) and a selective antagonist for neuronal NO synthase into the hippocampus successfully normalized the depressive behavior of Tert(-/-) mice. In addition, increased serotonergic transmission by the 5-HTR1A agonist in the mPFC was sufficient to rescue the aggressive behavior of Tert(-/-) mice. Thus, our studies revealed a novel function of TERT in the pathology of depression and aggression in a brain structure-specific manner, providing direct evidence for the contribution of TERT to emotional control.	Neurological deficits of alcohol use disorder (AUD) have been attributed to dysfunctions of specific brain structures. Studies of alcoholic patients and chronic alcohol exposure animal models consistently identify reduced hippocampal mass and cogntive dysfunctions as a key alcohol-induced brain adaptation. However, the precise substrate of chronic alcohol exposure that leads to structural and functional impairments of the hippocampus is largely unknown. Using a calorie-matched alcohol feeding method, we tested whether chronic alcohol exposure targets neural stem cells and neurogenesis in the adult hippocampus. The effect of alcohol on proliferation of neural stem cells as well as cell fate determination and survival of newborn cells was evaluated via bromodeoxyuridine pulse and chase methods. A retrovirus-mediated single-cell labeling method was used to determine the effect of alcohol on the morphological development and circuitry incorporation of individual hippocampal newborn neurons. Finally, novel object recognition (NOR) and Y-maze tests were performed to examine whether disrupted neurogenesis is associated with hippocampus-dependent functional deficits in alcohol-fed mice. Chronic alcohol exposure reduced proliferation of neural stem cells and survival rate of newborn neurons; however, the fate determination of newborn cells remained unaltered. Moreover, the dendritic spine density of newborn neurons significantly decreased in alcohol-fed mice. Impaired spine formation indicates that alcohol interfered the synaptic connectivity of newborn neurons with excitatory neurons originating from various areas of the brain. In the NOR test, alcohol-fed mice displayed deficits in the ability to discriminate the novel object. Our study revealed that chronic alcohol exposure disrupted multiple steps of neurogenesis, including the production and development of newborn neurons. In addition, chronic alcohol exposure altered connectivity of newborn neurons with other input neurons. Decreased neurogenesis and aberrant integration of newborn neurons into hippocampal networks are closely associated with deficits in hippocampus-dependent cognitive functions of alcohol-fed mice.	The identification of neural stem cells (NSCs) and their contribution to continuous neurogenesis has shown that the hippocampus and olfactory bulb are plastic. Brain plasticity, achieved at the level of cell genesis, has an essential role in the maintenance of brain homeostasis. Via combinatorial functions of extrinsic signals and intrinsic programs, adult neurogenesis is tightly regulated in a specialized microenvironment, a niche. Misregulated neurogenesis is detrimental to normal brain functions and, in extreme cases, pathogenic. Hence, understanding signaling in adult neurogenesis is not only important to understand the physiological roles of neurogenesis, but also to provide knowledge that is essential for developing therapeutic applications using NSCs to intervene in the progression of brain diseases.	To characterize the properties of adult neural stem cells (NSCs), we generated and analyzed Sox2-GFP transgenic mice. Sox2-GFP cells in the subgranular zone (SGZ) express markers specific for progenitors, but they represent two morphologically distinct populations that differ in proliferation levels. Lentivirus- and retrovirus-mediated fate-tracing studies showed that Sox2+ cells in the SGZ have potential to give rise to neurons and astrocytes, revealing their multipotency at the population as well as at a single-cell level. A subpopulation of Sox2+ cells gives rise to cells that retain Sox2, highlighting Sox2+ cells as a primary source for adult NSCs. In response to mitotic signals, increased proliferation of Sox2+ cells is coupled with the generation of Sox2+ NSCs as well as neuronal precursors. An asymmetric contribution of Sox2+ NSCs may play an important role in maintaining the constant size of the NSC pool and producing newly born neurons during adult neurogenesis.	Pten mutations are associated with autism spectrum disorder. Pten loss of function in neurons increases excitatory synaptic connectivity, contributing to an imbalance between excitation and inhibition. We aimed to determine whether Pten loss results in aberrant connectivity in neural circuits. We compared postnatally generated wild-type and Pten knockout granule neurons integrating into the dentate gyrus using a variety of methods to examine their connectivity. We found that postsynaptic Pten loss provides an advantage to dendritic spines in competition over a limited pool of presynaptic boutons. Retrograde monosynaptic tracing with rabies virus reveals that this results in synaptic contact with more presynaptic partners. Using independently excitable opsins to interrogate multiple inputs onto a single neuron, we found that excess connectivity is established indiscriminately from among glutamatergic afferents. Therefore, Pten loss results in inappropriate connectivity whereby neurons are coupled to a greater number of synaptic partners.	SETD5, a gene linked to intellectual disability (ID) and autism spectrum disorder (ASD), is a member of the SET-domain family and encodes a putative histone methyltransferase (HMT). To date, the mechanism by which SETD5 haploinsufficiency causes ASD/ID remains an unanswered question. Setd5 is the highly conserved mouse homolog, and although the Setd5 null mouse is embryonic lethal, the heterozygote is viable. Morphological tracing and multielectrode array was used on cultured cortical neurons. MRI was conducted of adult mouse brains and immunohistochemistry of juvenile mouse brains. RNA-Seq was used to investigate gene expression in the developing cortex. Behavioral assays were conducted on adult mice. Setd5<sup>+/-</sup> cortical neurons displayed significantly reduced synaptic density and neuritic outgrowth in vitro, with corresponding decreases in network activity and synchrony by electrophysiology. A specific subpopulation of fetal Setd5<sup>+/-</sup> cortical neurons showed altered gene expression of neurodevelopment-related genes. Setd5<sup>+/-</sup> animals manifested several autism-like behaviors, including hyperactivity, cognitive deficit, and altered social interactions. Anatomical differences were observed in Setd5<sup>+/-</sup> adult brains, accompanied by a deficit of deep-layer cortical neurons in the developing brain. Our data converge on a picture of abnormal neurodevelopment driven by Setd5 haploinsufficiency, consistent with a highly penetrant risk factor.	We previously showed increased growth associated protein 43 (GAP-43) expression in brain samples resected from patients with cortical dysplasia (CD), which was correlated with duration of epilepsy. Here, we used a rat model of CD to examine the regulation of GAP-43 in the brain and serum over the course of epileptogenesis. Baseline GAP-43 expression was higher in CD animals compared to control non-CD rats. An acute seizure increased GAP-43 expression in both CD and control rats. However, GAP-43 expression decreased by day 15 post-seizure in control rats, which did not develop spontaneous seizures. In contrast, GAP-43 remained up-regulated in CD rats, and over 50% developed chronic epilepsy with increased GAP-43 levels in their serum. GAP-43 protein was primarily located in excitatory neurons, suggesting its functional significance in epileptogenesis. Inhibition of GAP-43 expression by shRNA significantly reduced seizure duration and severity in CD rats after acute seizures with subsequent reduction in interictal spiking. Serum GAP-43 levels were significantly higher in CD rats that developed spontaneous seizures. Together, these results suggest GAP-43 as a key factor promoting epileptogenesis, a possible therapeutic target for treatment of progressive epilepsy and a potential biomarker for epilepsy progression in CD.
Tam, K. P. Connie	Ophthalmic Research	29191848	27891122	23006328	21901151	20130275	17905228	29062042	30439473	30343040	29062042	Skin and mucosal epithelia deploy antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) to eliminate harmful microbes. We reported that the intermediate filament keratin 6a (K6a) is constitutively processed into antimicrobial fragments in corneal epithelial cells. In this study, we show that K6a network remodeling is a host defense response that directly up-regulates production of keratin-derived AMPs (KAMPs) by the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS). Bacterial ligands trigger K6a phosphorylation at S19, S22, S37, and S60, leading to network disassembly. Mutagenic analysis of K6a confirmed that the site-specific phosphorylation augmented its solubility. K6a in the cytosol is ubiquitinated by cullin-RING E3 ligases for subsequent proteasomal processing. Without an appreciable increase in K6a gene expression and proteasome activity, a higher level of cytosolic K6a results in enhanced KAMP production. Although proteasome-mediated proteolysis is known to produce antigenic peptides in adaptive immunity, our findings demonstrate its new role in producing AMPs for innate immune defense. Manipulating K6a phosphorylation or UPS activity may provide opportunities to harness the innate immunity of epithelia against infection.	Antibiotic resistance is a pressing global health problem that threatens millions of lives each year. Natural antimicrobial peptides and their synthetic derivatives, including peptoids and peptidomimetics, are promising candidates as novel antibiotics. Recently, the C-terminal glycine-rich fragments of human epithelial keratin 6A were found to have bactericidal and cytoprotective activities. Here, we used an improved 2-dimensional NMR method coupled with a new protocol for structural refinement by low temperature simulated annealing to characterize the solution structure of these kerain-derived antimicrobial peptides (KAMPs). Two specific KAMPs in complex with membrane mimicking sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) micelles displayed amphipathic conformations with only local bends and turns, and a central 10-residue glycine-rich hydrophobic strip that is central to bactericidal activity. To our knowledge, this is the first report of non-αβ structure for human antimicrobial peptides. Direct observation of Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa by scanning and transmission electron microscopy showed that KAMPs deformed bacterial cell envelopes and induced pore formation. Notably, in competitive binding experiments, KAMPs demonstrated binding affinities to LPS and LTA that did not correlate with their bactericidal activities, suggesting peptide-LPS and peptide-LTA interactions are less important in their mechanisms of action. Moreover, immunoprecipitation of KAMPs-bacterial factor complexes indicated that membrane surface lipoprotein SlyB and intracellular machineries NQR sodium pump and ribosomes are potential molecular targets for the peptides. Results of this study improve our understanding of the bactericidal function of epithelial cytokeratin fragments, and highlight an unexplored class of human antimicrobial peptides, which may serve as non-αβ peptide scaffolds for the design of novel peptide-based antibiotics.	Epithelial cells express antimicrobial proteins in response to invading pathogens, although little is known regarding epithelial defense mechanisms during healthy conditions. Here we report that epithelial cytokeratins have innate defense properties because they constitutively produce cytoprotective antimicrobial peptides. Glycine-rich C-terminal fragments derived from human cytokeratin 6A were identified in bactericidal lysate fractions of human corneal epithelial cells. Structural analysis revealed that these keratin-derived antimicrobial peptides (KDAMPs) exhibited coil structures with low α-helical content. Synthetic analogs of these KDAMPS showed rapid bactericidal activity against multiple pathogens and protected epithelial cells against bacterial virulence mechanisms, while a scrambled peptide showed no bactericidal activity. However, the bactericidal activity of a specific KDAMP was somewhat reduced by glycine-alanine substitutions. KDAMP activity involved bacterial binding and permeabilization, but the activity was unaffected by peptide charge or physiological salt concentration. Knockdown of cytokeratin 6A markedly reduced the bactericidal activity of epithelial cell lysates in vitro and increased the susceptibility of murine corneas to bacterial adherence in vivo. These data suggest that epithelial cytokeratins function as endogenous antimicrobial peptides in the host defense against infection and that keratin-derived antimicrobials may serve as effective therapeutic agents.	While a plethora of in vivo models exist for studying infectious disease and its resolution, few enable factors involved in the maintenance of health to be studied in situ. This is due in part to a paucity of tools for studying subtleties of bacterial-host interactions at a cellular level within live organs or tissues, requiring investigators to rely on overt outcomes (e.g. pathology) in their research. Here, a suite of imaging technologies were combined to enable 3D and temporal subcellular localization and quantification of bacterial distribution within the murine cornea without the need for tissue processing or dissection. These methods were then used to demonstrate the importance of MyD88, a central adaptor protein for Toll-Like Receptor (TLR) mediated signaling, in protecting a multilayered epithelium against both adhesion and traversal by the opportunistic bacterial pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa ex vivo and in vivo.	Contact lens wear predisposes to Pseudomonas aeruginosa keratitis, but the mechanisms involved remain unclear. An in vivo model was used to study lens inoculation conditions enabling disease. Custom-made hydrogel contact lenses were fitted to rats after incubation in P. aeruginosa approximately 10(11) cfu/mL (3 hours) or approximately 10(3) cfu/mL (24 hours). Another group was inadvertently inoculated with a suction pen previously used with high inocula, but rinsed in ethanol and stored dry (6 months). Some corneas were tissue paper-blotted to cause fluorescein staining before lens fitting. Contralateral eyes were untreated. Twenty-four hours after disease detection, lenses were transferred to naive rats or examined by confocal microscopy before homogenization to quantify viable bacteria. After lens removal, corneas were washed to collect nonadherent bacteria and were analyzed by immunohistochemistry. All eyes challenged with unworn contaminated lenses developed keratitis after approximately 7 to 10 days. Disease delay and severity were unaffected by inoculum parameters or tissue blotting but occurred sooner with lenses transferred from infected eyes ( approximately 2 days). Worn lenses and corneal washes contained infecting bacteria. Posterior, not anterior, lens surfaces harbored P. aeruginosa biofilms that penetrated the lens matrix. Diseased corneas showed an infiltration of phagocytes and T-lymphocytes. P. aeruginosa induces keratitis in this lens-wearing model after a single inoculation. Delayed disease onset was interesting considering the greater keratitis risk during extended wear. Infection did not require the disruption of corneal barrier function before lens wear and occurred without exposure to lens care solutions. The data suggest that keratitis involves biofilm formation or other bacterial adaptations in vivo.	We have previously shown that ExoU, a type III secreted cytotoxin of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, causes acute cytotoxicity towards corneal epithelial cells in vitro, and contributes to corneal disease pathology and ocular colonization in vivo. Subsequently, we reported that ExoU represses phagocyte infiltration of infected corneas in vivo. ExoU has patatin-like phospholipase activity that is required for cytotoxic activity in vitro (mammalian cell injury and death) and for disease in a murine model of pneumonia. We hypothesized that the phospholipase activity was required for ExoU-mediated corneal disease and ocular colonization. Using the murine scarification model, corneal disease pathology was examined after inoculation with approximately 10(6)cfu of a P. aeruginosa effector mutant (PA103DeltaexoUexoT::Tc) complemented with either exoU (pUCPexoU), phospholipase-inactive exoU (pUCPexoUD344A) or a plasmid control (pUCP18). Eyes were photographed and disease severity scored at 24 and 48h post-infection. Viable bacteria colonizing infected eyes were quantified at 6 and 48h. Complementation with exoU caused significantly more pathology (increased disease severity scores) and enabled bacteria to better colonize (by approximately 1000-fold) at 48h as compared to phospholipase-inactive exoU which did not differ from plasmid control. Surprisingly, exoU did not contribute to early (6h) colonization. In-vitro assays confirmed that the phospholipase domain of exoU was required for cytotoxicity towards human corneal epithelial cells. Taken together these data show that the phospholipase activity of the P. aeruginosa cytotoxin, ExoU, plays a role in the pathogenesis of corneal infection via mechanism(s) occurring after initial colonization of a susceptible cornea.	Previously we reported that corneal epithelial barrier function against Pseudomonas aeruginosa was MyD88-dependent. Here, we explored contributions of MyD88-dependent receptors using vital mouse eyes and confocal imaging. Uninjured IL-1R (-/-) or TLR4 (-/-) corneas, but not TLR2 (-/-), TLR5 (-/-), TLR7 (-/-), or TLR9 (-/-), were more susceptible to P. aeruginosa adhesion than wild-type (3.8-fold, 3.6-fold respectively). Bacteria adherent to the corneas of IL-1R (-/-) or TLR5 (-/-) mice penetrated beyond the epithelial surface only if the cornea was superficially-injured. Bone marrow chimeras showed that bone marrow-derived cells contributed to IL-1R-dependent barrier function. In vivo, but not ex vivo, stromal CD11c+ cells responded to bacterial challenge even when corneas were uninjured. These cells extended processes toward the epithelial surface, and co-localized with adherent bacteria in superficially-injured corneas. While CD11c+ cell depletion reduced IL-6, IL-1β, CXCL1, CXCL2 and CXCL10 transcriptional responses to bacteria, and increased susceptibility to bacterial adhesion (&gt;3-fold), the epithelium remained resistant to bacterial penetration. IL-1R (-/-) corneas also showed down-regulation of IL-6 and CXCL1 genes with and without bacterial challenge. These data show complex roles for TLR4, TLR5, IL-1R and CD11c+ cells in constitutive epithelial barrier function against P. aeruginosa, with details dependent upon in vivo conditions.	Contact lens wear carries a risk of complications, including corneal infection. Solving these complications has been hindered by limitations of existing animal models. Here, we report development of a new murine model of contact lens wear. C57BL/6 mice were fitted with custom-made silicone-hydrogel contact lenses with or without prior inoculation with Pseudomonas aeruginosa (PAO1-GFP). Contralateral eyes served as controls. Corneas were monitored for pathology, and examined ex vivo using high-magnification, time-lapse imaging. Fluorescent reporter mice allowed visualization of host cell membranes and immune cells. Lens-colonizing bacteria were detected by viable counts and FISH. Direct-colony PCR was used for bacterial identification. Without deliberate inoculation, lens-wearing corneas remained free of visible pathology, and retained a clarity similar to non-lens wearing controls. CD11c-YFP reporter mice revealed altered numbers, and distribution, of CD11c-positive cells in lens-wearing corneas after 24 h. Worn lenses showed bacterial colonization, primarily by known conjunctival or skin commensals. Corneal epithelial cells showed vacuolization during lens wear, and after 5 days, cells with phagocyte morphology appeared in the stroma that actively migrated over resident keratocytes that showed altered morphology. Immunofluorescence confirmed stromal Ly6G-positive cells after 5 days of lens wear, but not in MyD88 or IL-1R gene-knockout mice. P. aeruginosa-contaminated lenses caused infectious pathology in most mice from 1 to 13 days. This murine model of contact lens wear appears to faithfully mimic events occurring during human lens wear, and could be valuable for experiments, not possible in humans, that help solve the pathogenesis of lens-related complications.	Research with animal models of Pseudomonas aeruginosa keratitis has shown that use of a topical corticosteroid alone against an established infection can significantly increase the number of colonizing bacteria or worsen clinical disease. Moreover, retrospective analysis has suggested that corticosteroid use in humans is associated with an increased risk of keratitis in eyes with pre-existing disease. Thus, while corticosteroids are often used to reduce ocular inflammation in the absence of infection, the risk of opportunistic infection remains a concern. However, the effect of corticosteroids on the intrinsic barrier function of uninfected corneas is unknown. Here, we tested if short-term topical corticosteroid treatment of an uninfected murine cornea would increase susceptibility to P. aeruginosa colonization or infection after epithelial injury. Topical prednisolone acetate (1%) was administered to one eye of C57BL/6 mice three times a day for 3 days; control eyes were treated with sterile PBS. Prior to inoculation with a cytotoxic P. aeruginosa corneal isolate strain 6206, corneas were subject to superficial-injury by tissue paper blotting, or scratch-injured followed by 12 h of healing. Previously we have shown that blotting renders mouse corneas susceptible to P. aeruginosa adhesion, but not infection, while 12 h healing reduces susceptibility to infection after scratching. Corneas were evaluated at 48 h for bacterial colonization and microbial keratitis (MK). To monitor impact on wound healing, corneal integrity was examined by fluorescein staining immediately after scarification and after 12 h healing. For both the tissue paper blotting and scratch-injury models, there was no significant difference in P. aeruginosa colonization at 48 h between corticosteroid-pretreated eyes and controls. With the blotting model, one case of MK was observed in a control (PBS-pretreated) cornea; none in corticosteroid-pretreated corneas. With the 12 h healing model, MK occurred in 6 of 17 corticosteroid-pretreated eyes versus 2 of 17 controls, a difference not statistically significant. Corticosteroid-pretreated eyes showed greater fluorescein staining 12 h after scarification injury, but this did not coincide with increased colonization or MK. Together, these data show that short-term topical corticosteroid therapy on an uninfected murine cornea does not necessarily enhance its susceptibility to P. aeruginosa colonization or infection after injury, even when it induces fluorescein staining.	Previously we reported that corneal epithelial barrier function against Pseudomonas aeruginosa was MyD88-dependent. Here, we explored contributions of MyD88-dependent receptors using vital mouse eyes and confocal imaging. Uninjured IL-1R (-/-) or TLR4 (-/-) corneas, but not TLR2 (-/-), TLR5 (-/-), TLR7 (-/-), or TLR9 (-/-), were more susceptible to P. aeruginosa adhesion than wild-type (3.8-fold, 3.6-fold respectively). Bacteria adherent to the corneas of IL-1R (-/-) or TLR5 (-/-) mice penetrated beyond the epithelial surface only if the cornea was superficially-injured. Bone marrow chimeras showed that bone marrow-derived cells contributed to IL-1R-dependent barrier function. In vivo, but not ex vivo, stromal CD11c+ cells responded to bacterial challenge even when corneas were uninjured. These cells extended processes toward the epithelial surface, and co-localized with adherent bacteria in superficially-injured corneas. While CD11c+ cell depletion reduced IL-6, IL-1β, CXCL1, CXCL2 and CXCL10 transcriptional responses to bacteria, and increased susceptibility to bacterial adhesion (&gt;3-fold), the epithelium remained resistant to bacterial penetration. IL-1R (-/-) corneas also showed down-regulation of IL-6 and CXCL1 genes with and without bacterial challenge. These data show complex roles for TLR4, TLR5, IL-1R and CD11c+ cells in constitutive epithelial barrier function against P. aeruginosa, with details dependent upon in vivo conditions.
Tang, W. H. Wilson	Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences	31023434	30953792	30890412	30410105	30345014	30158457	30012361	29994808	29893446	29729330	Despite major strides in reducing cardiovascular disease (CVD) burden with modification of classic CVD risk factors, significant residual risks remain. Recent discoveries that linked intestinal microbiota and CVD have broadened our understanding of how dietary nutrients may affect cardiovascular health and disease. Although next-generation sequencing techniques can identify gut microbial community participants and provide insights into microbial composition shifts in response to physiological responses and dietary exposures, provisions of prebiotics or probiotics have yet to show therapeutic benefit for CVD. Our evolving understanding of intestinal microbiota-derived physiological modulators (e.g., short-chain fatty acids) and pathogenic mediators (e.g., trimethylamine N-oxide) of host disease susceptibility have created novel potential therapeutic opportunities for improved cardiovascular health. This review discusses the roles of human intestinal microbiota in normal physiology, their associations with CVD susceptibilities, and the potential of modulating intestinal microbiota composition and metabolism as a novel therapeutic target for CVD.	Amino-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NTproBNP) is closely associated with prognosis in acute decompensated heart failure (ADHF). As a result, there has been great interest measuring it during the course of treatment. The prognostic implications in both short-term and follow-up changes in NTproBNP need further clarification. Baseline, 48-72 hour, and 30-day NTproBNP levels were measured in 795 subjects in the ASCEND-HF trial. Multivariable logistic and Cox-proportional hazards models were used to test the association between static, relative, and absolute changes in NTproBNP with outcomes during and after ADHF. The median NTproBNP at baseline was 5773 (2981-11,579) pg/mL; at 48-72 hours was 3036 (1191-6479) pg/mL; and at 30 days was 2914 (1364-6667) pg/mL. Absolute changes in NTproBNP by 48-72 hours were not associated with 30-day heart failure rehospitalization or mortality (P = .065), relative changes in NTproBNP were nominally associated (P = .046). In contrast, both absolute and relative changes in NTproBNP from baseline to 48-72 hours and to 30 days were closely associated with 180-day mortality (P &lt; .02 for all) with increased discrimination compared to the multivariable models with baseline NTproBNP (P &lt;.05 for models with relative and absolute change at both time points). Although the degree of absolute change in NTproBNP was dependent on baseline levels, both short-term absolute and relative changes in NTproBNP were independently and incrementally associated with long-term clinical outcomes. Changes in NTproBNP levels at 30-days were particularly well associated with long-term clinical outcomes.	Corin is a serine protease known to convert B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) prohormone into BNP and its amino-terminal fragment (NT-proBNP). In mice lacking corin, high blood pressure and proteinuria were found at late gestational stages, with associated delayed trophoblast invasion and impaired spiral artery remodeling in the uterus. We hypothesize that both NT-proBNP and soluble corin elevation predict the presence of preeclampsia in pregnant patients with hypertension. We prospectively enrolled 149 pregnant women with a history of chronic hypertension or gestational hypertension presenting at a tertiary-care hospital. We compared plasma NT-proBNP and soluble corin concentrations based on their preeclamptic status. In our study cohort, 62 patients with preeclampsia had lower gestational age than 87 patients without preeclampsia (33.3 ± 3 versus 36.6 ± 3 weeks; P &lt; .001), otherwise the baseline characteristics were similar. We observed higher NT-proBNP concentrations in patients with preeclampsia compared to those without preeclampsia (304.3 [96.34, 570.4] vs. 60.8 [35.61, 136.8] ng/L, P &lt; .001), with no differences between chronic and gestational hypertension. However, the concentration of corin was not statistically different between the two groups (1756 [1214, 2133] vs. 1571 [1171, 1961] ng/L, P = .1087). ROC curve analysis demonstrated stronger predictive value of NT-proBNP compared to soluble corin in predicting the presence of preeclampsia in our study population (AUC 0.7406 vs. 0.5789, P &lt; .0001). While corin may contribute to mechanistic underpinnings of the development of preeclampsia in animal models, soluble corin likely has no diagnostic role in human pregnancies for preeclampsia beyond natriuretic peptide levels.	Advances in our understanding of how the gut microbiota contributes to human health and diseases have expanded our insight into how microbial composition and function affect the human host. Heart failure is associated with splanchnic circulation congestion, leading to bowel wall oedema and impaired intestinal barrier function. This situation is thought to heighten the overall inflammatory state via increased bacterial translocation and the presence of bacterial products in the systemic blood circulation. Several metabolites produced by gut microorganisms from dietary metabolism have been linked to pathologies such as atherosclerosis, hypertension, heart failure, chronic kidney disease, obesity, and type 2 diabetes mellitus. These findings suggest that the gut microbiome functions like an endocrine organ by generating bioactive metabolites that can directly or indirectly affect host physiology. In this Review, we discuss several newly discovered gut microbial metabolic pathways, including the production of trimethylamine and trimethylamine N-oxide, short-chain fatty acids, and secondary bile acids, that seem to participate in the development and progression of cardiovascular diseases, including heart failure. We also discuss the gut microbiome as a novel therapeutic target for the treatment of cardiovascular disease, and potential strategies for targeting intestinal microbial processes.	Recent advances in cancer prevention and management have led to an exponential increase of cancer survivors worldwide. Regrettably, cardiovascular disease has risen in the aftermath as one of the most devastating consequences of cancer therapies. In this work, we define cancer therapeutics-induced cardiotoxicity as the direct or indirect cardiovascular injury or injurious effect caused by cancer therapies. We describe four progressive stages of this condition and four corresponding levels of prevention, each having a specific goal, focus, and means of action. We subsequently unfold this didactic framework, surveying mechanisms of cardiotoxicity, risk factors, cardioprotectants, biomarkers, and diagnostic imaging modalities. Finally, we outline the most current evidence-based recommendations in this area according to multidisciplinary expert consensus guidelines.	Cardiotonic steroids (CTS) are Na⁺/K⁺-ATPase (NKA) ligands that are elevated in volume-expanded states and associated with cardiac and renal dysfunction in both clinical and experimental settings. We test the hypothesis that the CTS telocinobufagin (TCB) promotes renal dysfunction in a process involving signaling through the NKA α-1 in the following studies. First, we infuse TCB (4 weeks at 0.1 µg/g/day) or a vehicle into mice expressing wild-type (WT) NKA α-1, as well as mice with a genetic reduction (~40%) of NKA α-1 (NKA α-1<sup>+/-</sup>). Continuous TCB infusion results in increased proteinuria and cystatin C in WT mice which are significantly attenuated in NKA α-1<sup>+/-</sup> mice (all p &lt; 0.05), despite similar increases in blood pressure. In a series of in vitro experiments, 24-h treatment of HK2 renal proximal tubular cells with TCB results in significant dose-dependent increases in both Collagens 1 and 3 mRNA (2-fold increases at 10 nM, 5-fold increases at 100 nM, p &lt; 0.05). Similar effects are seen in primary human renal mesangial cells. TCB treatment (100 nM) of SYF fibroblasts reconstituted with cSrc results in a 1.5-fold increase in Collagens 1 and 3 mRNA (p &lt; 0.05), as well as increases in both Transforming Growth factor beta (TGFb, 1.5 fold, p &lt; 0.05) and Connective Tissue Growth Factor (CTGF, 2 fold, p &lt; 0.05), while these effects are absent in SYF cells without Src kinase. In a patient study of subjects with chronic kidney disease, TCB is elevated compared to healthy volunteers. These studies suggest that the pro-fibrotic effects of TCB in the kidney are mediated though the NKA-Src kinase signaling pathway and may have relevance to volume-overloaded conditions, such as chronic kidney disease where TCB is elevated.	Circulating cardiac troponin levels (cTn), representative of myocardial injury, are commonly elevated in heart failure (HF) and related to adverse clinical events. However, whether cTn represents a spectrum of risk in HF is unclear. Baseline, 48-72-hour, and 30-day plasma cTnI was measured with the use of a new highly sensitive assay in 900 subjects with acute decompensated HF (ADHF) in ASCEND-HF. Multivariable models determined the relationship between cTnI and outcomes. The median (interquartile range) cTnI was 16.4 (9.3-31.6) ng/L at baseline, 14.1 (7.8-29.7) ng/L at 48-72 hours, and 11.6 (6.8-22.5) ng/L at 30 days. After additional adjustment for N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) to established risk predictors, both baseline (odds ratio [OR] 1.25; P = .03) and 48-72-hour (OR 1.43; P = .001) cTnI were associated with higher risk for death or worsening HF before discharge. However, only cTnI at 30 days was associated with 180-day death (hazard ratio 1.25; P = .007). There were no curvilinear associations between changing cTnI and clinical outcomes. Circulating cTnI level was associated with clinical outcomes in ADHF, but these observations diminished with additional adjustment for NT-proBNP. Although they likely represent a spectrum of risk in ADHF, these findings question the implications of changing cTnI levels during treatment.	Precision medicine is the concept of disease treatment and prevention using an individual's genomic profile in addition to personal and environmental factors. This review outlines examples of new biomarker strategies that enable the practice of precision cardiovascular medicine. Although commonly attributed to identifying causative genetic variants, mono-genetic causes of cardiovascular diseases (CVD) are not common and largely focused on lipoprotein analyses. Nevertheless, rare clinical presentations in families with extreme phenotypes can sometimes identify novel pathways that can serve as therapeutic targets, such as the discovery of PCSK9 inhibitors for familial hypercholesterolemia or small molecular inhibitors of myosin ATPase activities for hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Polygenetic risks scores can also identify high-risk cohorts before their clinical manifestations. Novel metabolomic insights can also lead to unexpected modulators of CVD susceptibility, such as nutrient-induced gut microbiota-derived metabolic pathways. Adequate knowledge systems and data infrastructure are necessary for clinicians to take into account both genetic and environmental factors to operationalize precision medicine and to prevent CVD.	Prior cohorts demonstrating the importance of serum chloride levels in heart failure either excluded or had partial representation of patients with heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF). We aimed to examine the relationship between serum chloride concentration and outcomes in HFpEF. We included participants from the Treatment of Preserved Cardiac Function Heart Failure with an Aldosterone Antagonist Trial (TOPCAT) who met the following criteria: met inclusion by the natriuretic peptide stratum, had recorded serum chloride levels, and were from the Americas (n = 942). Multivariable Cox proportional hazards models tested the association of serum chloride with clinical outcomes, and mixed effects modelling tested the association of spironolactone or loop diuretic on serial serum chloride levels. The median serum chloride level was 102 [25th-75th percentile 100-105 mmol/L (range 84-114 mmol/L)]. After multivariable adjustment, every standard deviation decrease in serum chloride (4.05 mmol/L) was associated with ∼50% increased risk for cardiovascular death [hazard ratio (HR) 1.51, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.11-2.06, P = 0.008] and ∼30% increased risk for all-cause death (HR 1.29, 95% CI 1.02-1.62, P = 0.04), but not with the primary composite endpoint or heart failure hospitalization (P &gt; 0.3 for both). There were no significant interactions between spironolactone use and the serum chloride-risk relationship (P &gt; 0.1) for each endpoint. Spironolactone was not (P = 0.33) but loop diuretic use was associated with lower serial serum chloride levels (P &lt; 0.001). Lower serum chloride was independently associated with increased risk of cardiovascular and all-cause death in HFpEF. Loop diuretic use, but not spironolactone, lead to a decrease in serum chloride levels over time.	Mitochondrial oxidation is a major source of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and mitochondrial dysfunction plays a central role in development of heart failure (HF). Paraoxonase 2 deficient (PON2-def) mitochondria are impaired in function. In this study, we tested whether PON2-def aggravates HF progression. Using qPCR, immunoblotting and lactonase activity assay, we demonstrate that PON2 activity was significantly decreased in failing hearts despite increased PON2 expression. To determine the cardiac-specific function of PON2, we performed heart transplantations in which PON2-def and wild type (WT) donor hearts were implanted into WT recipient mice. Beating scores of the donor hearts, assessed at 4 weeks post-transplantation, were significantly decreased in PON2-def hearts when compared to WT donor hearts. By using a transverse aortic constriction (TAC) model, we found PON2 deficiency significantly exacerbated left ventricular remodeling and cardiac fibrosis post-TAC. We further demonstrated PON2 deficiency significantly enhanced ROS generation in heart tissues post-TAC. ROS generation was measured through dihydroethidium (DHE) using high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) with a fluorescent detector. By using neonatal cardiomyocytes treated with CoCl2 to mimic hypoxia, we found PON2 deficiency dramatically increased ROS generation in the cardiomyocytes upon CoCl2 treatment. In response to a short CoCl2 exposure, cell viability and succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) activity assessed by MTT assay were significantly diminished in PON2-def cardiomyocytes compared to those in WT cardiomyocytes. PON2-def cardiomyocytes also had lower baseline SDH activity. By using adult mouse cardiomyocytes and mitochondrial ToxGlo assay, we found impaired cellular ATP generation in PON2-def cells compared to that in WT cells, suggesting that PON2 is necessary for proper mitochondrial function. Our study suggests a cardioprotective role for PON2 in both experimental and human heart failure, which may be associated with the ability of PON2 to improve mitochondrial function and diminish ROS generation.
Tannenbaum, Charles	Inflammation and Immunity	18354192	17475896	10936062	9670971	8543822	8258693	7684766	2114413	2494257	2783930	Tumors can promote their own progressive growth by inducing T cell apoptosis. Though previous studies suggested that tumor-mediated T cell killing is receptor dependent, we recently showed that tumor gangliosides also participate, a notion consistent with reports indicating that, in some cell types, gangliosides can activate the intrinsic apoptotic pathway by stimulating reactive oxygen species production, cytochrome c release, and caspase-9 activation. In this study, we used normal peripheral blood T cells, as well as caspase-8-, caspase-9-, and Fas-associated death domain protein-deficient Jurkat cells, to assess whether the death ligands and gangliosides overexpressed by the renal cell carcinoma (RCC) cell line SK-RC-45 can independently stimulate T cell apoptosis as a mechanism of immune escape. Anti-FasL Abs and the glycosylceramide synthase inhibitor 1-phenyl-2-hexadecanoylamino-3-pyrrolidino-1-propanol (PPPP) each partially inhibited the ability of SK-RC-45 to kill cocultured activated T cells; together, as purified molecules, RCC gangliosides and rFasL induced a more extensive mitochondrial permeability transition and greater levels of apoptosis than either agent alone, equivalent to that induced by the FasL- and ganglioside-expressing RCC line itself. rFasL-mediated apoptosis was completely inhibited in caspase-8- and Fas-associated death domain protein-negative Jurkat cells, though apoptosis induced by purified gangliosides remained intact, findings that correlate with the observed partial inhibition of SK-RC-45-induced apoptosis in the Jurkat lines with defective death receptor signaling. Western blot analysis performed on lysates made from wild-type and mutant Jurkat cells cocultured with SK-RC-45 revealed caspase activation patterns and other biochemical correlates which additionally supported the concept that tumor-associated gangliosides and FasL independently activate the caspase cascade in T cells through the intrinsic and extrinsic pathways, respectively.	Previous studies from our laboratory demonstrated the role of tumor-derived gangliosides as important mediators of T cell apoptosis, and hence, as one mechanism by which tumors evade immune destruction. In this study, we report that TNF-alpha secreted by infiltrating inflammatory cells and/or genetically modified tumors augments tumor-associated GM2 levels, which leads to T cell death and immune dysfunction. The conversion of weakly apoptogenic renal cell carcinoma (RCC) clones to lines that can induce T cell death requires 3-5 days of TNF-alpha pretreatment, a time frame paralleling that needed for TNF-alpha to stimulate GM2 accumulation by SK-RC-45, SK-RC-54, and SK-RC-13. RCC tumor cell lines permanently transfected with the TNF-alpha transgene are similarly toxic for T lymphocytes, which correlates with their constitutively elevated levels of GM2. TNF-alpha increases GM2 ganglioside expression by enhancing the mRNA levels encoding its synthetic enzyme, GM2 synthase, as demonstrated by both RT-PCR and Southern analysis. The contribution of GM2 gangliosides to tumor-induced T cell death was supported by the finding that anti-GM2 Abs significantly blocked T cell apoptosis mediated by TNF-alpha-treated tumor cells, and by the observation that small interfering RNA directed against TNF-alpha abrogated GM2 synthase expression by TNF-transfected SK-RC-45, diminished its GM2 accumulation, and inhibited its apoptogenicity for T lymphocytes. Our results indicate that TNF-alpha signaling promotes RCC-induced killing of T cells by stimulating the acquisition of a distinct ganglioside assembly in RCC tumor cells.	IFNgamma is a functionally pleiotropic cytokine which shows considerable potency in promoting anti-tumor functions in vivo. Despite limited efficacy when delivered systemically either to experimental animals or patients, IFNgamma appears to play an important and perhaps critical role in directing the development of immune-mediated tumor destruction when expressed within the tumor bed. This has been demonstrated both by use of tumor cells transduced to express IFNgamma and by the use of IL-12 which is able, at least is murine models, to promote an IFNgamma-dependent, T cell mediated anti-tumor response. Recent studies indicate that the therapeutic efficacy of IFNgamma in tumor models depends critically upon the ability of the tumor cells themselves to respond to IFNgamma. Though IFNgamma is able to induce anti-viral activity and has direct anti-proliferative effects on some tumor cell lines, immunomodulatory function also appears to be an important component of its anti-tumor action. This is mediated through the action of several different classes of IFNgamma-inducible gene expression which control antigen processing and presentation, leukocyte trafficking, and indirect tumor cytotoxicity.	The role of the non-ELR-containing CXC chemokines IP-10 and Mig in antitumor activity induced by systemic treatment with IL-12 was examined in mice bearing the murine renal adenocarcinoma RENCA. IL-12 treatment produces a potent antitumor effect that is associated with tumor infiltration by CD8+ T lymphocytes. The regression of tumor is associated with the elevated expression of the IFN-gamma-inducible chemokines IP-10 and Mig within the tumor tissue. IP-10 and Mig have been shown to function as chemoattractants for activated T lymphocytes. In animals treated with rabbit polyclonal Abs specific for IP-10 and for Mig, the IL-12-induced regression of RENCA tumors was partially abrogated. This effect was associated with a dramatic inhibition of T cell infiltration. Thus, it appears that IL-12-dependent, T cell-mediated antitumor activity requires the intermediate expression of IP-10 and Mig to recruit antitumor effector T cells to the tumor site.	The cellular and molecular mechanisms of IL-12-mediated anti-tumor activity have been examined. BALB/c mice bearing established s.c. RENCA or CT26 tumors that were treated daily with IL-12 showed essentially complete tumor regression while tumors in untreated animals grew progressively. Examination of inflammatory gene expression in tumor tissue from treated vs untreated mice revealed the selective expression of IFN-gamma and the IFN-gamma-inducible CXC chemokine IP-10. Immunohistologic analysis demonstrated that tumors from treated mice were heavily infiltrated with CD8+ T cells and Mac-1+ mononuclear cells. Tumor regression in IL-12-treated mice was associated with expression of the lytic effector molecules perforin and granzyme B. These findings support the hypothesis that the anti-tumor function of IL-12 treatment depends upon the induced expression of IFN-gamma by T cells and/or NK cells, the amplification of the immune response mediated by IFN-gamma-induced expression of chemoattractant cytokines, and the IL-12-dependent potentiation of the cytolytic effector function of recruited CD8+ T cells.	Expression of TNF receptor (TNFR) mRNA has been examined in murine peritoneal macrophages stimulated with LPS and/or IFN-gamma. LPS markedly enhanced expression of a heterogenous population of mRNA, which hybridized with a cDNA encoding the type II TNFR. mRNA expression was optimally induced by 4 to 8 h and returned to baseline by 24 h after stimulation. Interestingly, though IFN-gamma can synergize with LPS for the expression of TNF-alpha, it abrogated the LPS-mediated enhancement of type II TNFR in a dose-dependent fashion. IFN-alpha, though less effective, had a qualitatively comparable effect. These effects were selective for the type II TNFR because levels of mRNA encoding the type I TNFR did not vary appreciably with any of the treatments described. The effects of IFN-gamma on LPS-mediated TNFR expression were dependent on the sequence of exposure; pretreatment with IFN-gamma was most effective at blocking response to LPS, whereas IFN-gamma added 1 h after initiation of LPS treatment had little or no effect. The effects of both LPS and IFN-gamma on type II TNFR expression were mediated at least in part by modulation of transcription. The effects of both LPS and IFN-gamma were also independent of protein synthesis because inclusion of cycloheximide in the treatment protocol did not abrogate either the inductive or the suppressive effects. These findings suggest that IFN-gamma and LPS modulate the physiologic action of TNF through complex mechanisms involving effects on the transcription of TNF-alpha itself and on receptors through which it may act in autocrine or paracrine fashion.	We previously reported the isolation and characterization of cDNA clones encoding novel lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-inducible mRNAs from murine peritoneal macrophages. We now present the complete coding sequence of a cDNA previously termed D3. Analysis of multiple clones from a murine macrophage cDNA library provided a complete cDNA sequence of approximately 1.6 kb. The corresponding RNA contains a single open reading frame encoding a hydrophilic protein composed of 425 amino acids and is characterized by a region including three perfect and two imperfect repeats of a seven-amino-acid sequence. Based on nucleotide and deduced amino acid sequence, this mRNA is a new member of a previously described multigene cluster of interferon-inducible genes termed the Mouse 200 series genes. This new sequence most closely resembles gene 204 because both D3 and 204 genes have segments containing the seven-amino-acid repeat sequence. The Mouse 202 and 204 genes, however, have an approximately 200-amino-acid carboxyl-terminal domain that is absent in the LPS-inducible macrophage-derived cDNA. In addition, D3, 202, and 204 can all be distinguished from one another by virtue of unique 3' noncoding regions 200-300 base pairs in length. The D3 unique sequence is largely restricted to the smallest of the three size classes of this gene family expressed in macrophages and is not detected in interferon- or platelet-derived growth factor-stimulated fibroblasts. Overall, three separate mRNAs have now been described, each of which has three or more of a possible seven nucleotide sequence domains. Although the function(s) of the members of this gene family remains unknown, the multiple forms inducible by diverse stimuli and their restricted cell type expression suggest diverse and important physiologic roles for their products in inflammation.	The expression of the early genes JE and KC has been examined in Balb/C 3T3 cells treated with bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Previous studies showed that JE and KC mRNAs are induced in murine peritoneal macrophages treated with LPS, suggesting a role for these genes in inflammatory responses. Consistent with this possibility are recently published cDNA sequences which document that both genes are members of a superfamily of inflammation- and/or growth-related cytokines. In the present study, we provide evidence that the mRNAs for JE and KC are specifically induced by LPS treatment of Balb/c 3T3 cells. The LPS-stimulated expression of JE and KC was dose dependent, and exhibited a transient time course; message levels were maximal between 2 and 4 hr and declined by 8 hr. The LPS-augmented accumulation of JE and KC occurred even in the presence of cyclohexamide, which additionally had a superinducing effect on the expression of both genes. Cyclohexamide alone, in the absence of LPS, also induced JE and KC mRNA accumulation. LPS-stimulated JE and KC mRNA expression was dependent upon the stimulation of transcription as determined by nuclear &quot;run-on&quot; studies. Comparative analyses indicated that, under the conditions employed, LPS was a somewhat less effective stimulant of JE expression than PDGF or EGF, and was more effective than PDGF and equivalent to EGF in its ability to augment KC accumulation. Unlike PDGF and EGF, LPS did not stimulate DNA synthesis by Balb/c 3T3 cells at any time over the 72 hr period examined. The ability of the inflammatory, non-mitogenic stimulus LPS to selectively induce JE and KC mRNA expression by fibroblasts may reflect their participation in inflammation and wound healing as secretory cells.	We have recently described the isolation and characterization of a set of cDNA encoding genes whose expression is induced or enhanced in murine peritoneal macrophages by treatment with LPS. In the present report we have analyzed the expression of the mRNA which hybridize with these cDNA probes in macrophages treated with other cytokines known to modulate functional activity. Three distinct patterns of expression have been documented. Two genes (D3 and C7) are inducible by LPS, IFN-gamma, and IFN-beta; D3 is comparably sensitive to all three, whereas C7 is more sensitive to LPS and IFN-gamma than to IFN-beta. The mRNA encoded by D8 is expressed in response to LPS and IFN-beta but not in response to IFN-gamma. Finally the gene encoded by D5 is inducible only in cells treated with LPS. The expression of all three cytokine-inducible mRNA was both dose and time dependent and was mediated by increased transcriptional activity of the genes. As with stimulation by LPS, the expression induced by IFN was independent of protein synthesis and occurred in a rapid and transient fashion. TNF-alpha had little or no detectable effect on any of the genes by themselves. The expression of C7, however, could be induced synergistically by treatment with a combination of TNF-alpha and either IFN-gamma of IFN-beta. The expression of these genes was not specific for macrophages as both IFN were able to induce a comparable pattern of gene expression in BALB/c 3T3 cells. Treatment of macrophages with dexamethasone inhibited LPS-induced C7 and D8 expression but did not affect that seen in response to IFN-gamma or IFN-beta, respectively. The results suggest that IFN and LPS act to modulate early gene expression by the generation of at least three overlapping but distinct signaling pathways. In some cases the pathway(s) which mediate response to LPS appear to be mechanistically distinct from those which mediate response to IFN-beta or IFN-gamma. The spectrum of stimuli and cell types which express these and other early genes suggest that they may play an important role in orchestration of the inflammatory response.	We have previously described the isolation and characterization of a set of cDNA clones encoding lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced early genes in murine peritoneal macrophages. The treatment of macrophages with LPS also stimulates the expression of four early or competence genes (c-fos, c-myc, JE, and KC) described in platelet-derived growth factor-stimulated Balb/c 3T3 cells. These latter findings led to the hypothesis that long term, adaptive responses such as DNA synthesis in fibroblasts and functional activation of macrophages may share multiple mechanistic pathways. To test this possibility, we have examined the expression of four LPS-inducible macrophage genes in platelet-derived growth factor-stimulated Balb/c 3T3 fibroblasts. The results demonstrate that three of these four genes are expressed in 3T3 cells in a fashion reminiscent of other growth factor-stimulated competence genes. All three mRNAs are expressed even in the presence of cycloheximide and two of the three exhibit superinducibility. The accumulation of these specific mRNA species was dependent upon the stimulation of transcription as determined by nuclear &quot;run-off&quot; studies. The platelet-derived growth factor dose dependence is comparable both for stimulation of DNA synthesis and expression of the three early genes. Furthermore, expression of all three genes preceded the entry of the cells into S phase, suggesting an association with cell cycle entry. Stimulation of 3T3 cells with epidermal growth factor resulted in DNA synthesis but not early gene expression. This latter result indicates that these early gene products are not necessary for 3T3 cell mitogenesis. Nevertheless, the expression of these genes in two different cell types in association with two distinct functional responses suggests that they contribute common functions either in terms of the physiologic response in which these cells participate (e.g. inflammation) or in the regulatory mechanisms which govern such responses.
Taylor, Dawn	Neurosciences	27979758	26170261	24359452	23724837	23611833	21712569	21623009	21472032	21436529	20064765	Custom-fitted skull replacement pieces are often used after a head injury or surgery to replace damaged bone. Chronic brain recordings are beneficial after injury/surgery for monitoring brain health and seizure development. Embedding electrodes directly in these artificial skull replacement pieces would be a novel, low-risk way to perform chronic brain monitoring in these patients. Similarly, embedding electrodes directly in healthy skull would be a viable minimally-invasive option for many other neuroscience and neurotechnology applications requiring chronic brain recordings. We demonstrate a preclinical testbed that can be used for refining electrode designs embedded in artificial skull replacement pieces or for embedding directly into the skull itself. Options are explored to increase the surface area of the contacts without increasing recording contact diameter to maximize recording resolution. Embedding electrodes in real or artificial skull allows one to lower electrode impedance without increasing the recording contact diameter by making use of conductive channels that extend into the skull. The higher density of small contacts embedded in the artificial skull in this testbed enables one to optimize electrode spacing for use in real bone. For brain monitoring applications, skull-embedded electrodes fill a gap between electroencephalograms recorded on the scalp surface and the more invasive epidural or subdural electrode sheets. Embedding electrodes into the skull or in skull replacement pieces may provide a safe, convenient, minimally-invasive alternative for chronic brain monitoring. The manufacturing methods described here will facilitate further testing of skull-embedded electrodes in animal models.	Decoding algorithms for brain-machine interfacing (BMI) are typically only optimized to reduce the magnitude of decoding errors. Our goal was to systematically quantify how four characteristics of BMI command signals impact closed-loop performance: (1) error magnitude, (2) distribution of different frequency components in the decoding errors, (3) processing delays, and (4) command gain. To systematically evaluate these different command features and their interactions, we used a closed-loop BMI simulator where human subjects used their own wrist movements to command the motion of a cursor to targets on a computer screen. Random noise with three different power distributions and four different relative magnitudes was added to the ongoing cursor motion in real time to simulate imperfect decoding. These error characteristics were tested with four different visual feedback delays and two velocity gains. Participants had significantly more trouble correcting for errors with a larger proportion of low-frequency, slow-time-varying components than they did with jittery, higher-frequency errors, even when the error magnitudes were equivalent. When errors were present, a movement delay often increased the time needed to complete the movement by an order of magnitude more than the delay itself. Scaling down the overall speed of the velocity command can actually speed up target acquisition time when low-frequency errors and delays are present. This study is the first to systematically evaluate how the combination of these four key command signal features (including the relatively-unexplored error power distribution) and their interactions impact closed-loop performance independent of any specific decoding method. The equations we derive relating closed-loop movement performance to these command characteristics can provide guidance on how best to balance these different factors when designing BMI systems. The equations reported here also provide an efficient way to compare a diverse range of decoding options offline.	Brain-computer interface (BCI) systems have been developed to provide paralyzed individuals the ability to command the movements of an assistive device using only their brain activity. BCI systems are typically tested in a controlled laboratory environment were the user is focused solely on the brain-control task. However, for practical use in everyday life people must be able to use their brain-controlled device while mentally engaged with the cognitive responsibilities of daily activities and while compensating for any inherent dynamics of the device itself. BCIs that use electroencephalography (EEG) for movement control are often assumed to require significant mental effort, thus preventing users from thinking about anything else while using their BCI. This study tested the impact of cognitive load as well as speaking on the ability to use an EEG-based BCI. Six participants controlled the two-dimensional (2D) movements of a simulated neuroprosthesis-arm under three different levels of cognitive distraction. The two higher cognitive load conditions also required simultaneously speaking during BCI use. On average, movement performance declined during higher levels of cognitive distraction, but only by a limited amount. Movement completion time increased by 7.2%, the percentage of targets successfully acquired declined by 11%, and path efficiency declined by 8.6%. Only the decline in percentage of targets acquired and path efficiency were statistically significant (p &lt; 0.05). People who have relatively good movement control of an EEG-based BCI may be able to speak and perform other cognitively engaging activities with only a minor drop in BCI-control performance.	Stereoelectroencephalography (SEEG) is becoming more prevalent as a planning tool for surgical treatment of intractable epilepsy. Stereoelectroencephalography uses long, thin, cylindrical &quot;depth&quot; electrodes containing multiple recording contacts along each electrode's length. Each lead is inserted into the brain percutaneously. The advantage of SEEG is that the electrodes can easily target deeper brain structures that are inaccessible with subdural grid electrodes, and SEEG does not require a craniotomy. Brain-machine interface (BMI) research is also becoming more common in the Epilepsy Monitoring Unit. A brain-machine interface decodes a person's desired movement or action from the recorded brain activity and then uses the decoded brain activity to control an assistive device in real time. Although BMIs are primarily being developed for use by severely paralyzed individuals, epilepsy patients undergoing invasive brain monitoring provide an opportunity to test the effectiveness of different invasive recording electrodes for use in BMI systems. This study investigated the ability to use SEEG electrodes for control of 2D cursor velocity in a BMI. Two patients who were undergoing SEEG for intractable epilepsy participated in this study. Participants were instructed to wiggle or rest the hand contralateral to their SEEG electrodes to control the horizontal velocity of a cursor on a screen. Simultaneously they were instructed to wiggle or rest their feet to control the vertical component of cursor velocity. The BMI system was designed to detect power spectral changes associated with hand and foot activity and translate those spectral changes into horizontal and vertical cursor movements in real time. During testing, participants used their decoded SEEG signals to move the brain-controlled cursor to radial targets that appeared on the screen. Although power spectral information from 28 to 32 electrode contacts were used for cursor control during the experiment, post hoc analysis indicated that better control may have been possible using only a single SEEG depth electrode containing multiple recording contacts in both hand and foot cortical areas. These results suggest that the advantages of using SEEG for epilepsy monitoring may also apply to using SEEG electrodes in BMI systems. Specifically, SEEG electrodes can target deeper brain structures, such as foot motor cortex, and both hand and foot areas can be targeted with a single SEEG electrode implanted percutaneously. Therefore, SEEG electrodes may be an attractive option for simple BMI systems that use power spectral modulation in hand and foot cortex for independent control of 2 degrees of freedom.	Our goal was to identify spatial filtering methods that would improve decoding of continuous arm movements from epidural field potentials as well as demonstrate the use of the epidural signals in a closed-loop brain-machine interface (BMI) system in monkeys. Eleven spatial filtering options were compared offline using field potentials collected from 64-channel high-density epidural arrays in monkeys. Arrays were placed over arm/hand motor cortex in which intracortical microelectrodes had previously been implanted and removed leaving focal cortical damage but no lasting motor deficits. Spatial filters tested included: no filtering, common average referencing (CAR), principle component analysis, and eight novel modifications of the common spatial pattern (CSP) algorithm. The spatial filtering method and decoder combination that performed the best offline was then used online where monkeys controlled cursor velocity using continuous wrist position decoded from epidural field potentials in real time. Optimized CSP methods improved continuous wrist position decoding accuracy by 69% over CAR and by 80% compared to no filtering. Kalman decoders performed better than linear regression decoders and benefitted from including more spatially-filtered signals but not from pre-smoothing the calculated power spectra. Conversely, linear regression decoders required fewer spatially-filtered signals and were improved by pre-smoothing the power values. The 'position-to-velocity' transformation used during online control enabled the animals to generate smooth closed-loop movement trajectories using the somewhat limited position information available in the epidural signals. The monkeys' online performance significantly improved across days of closed-loop training. Most published BMI studies that use electrocorticographic signals to decode continuous limb movements either use no spatial filtering or CAR. This study suggests a substantial improvement in decoding accuracy could be attained by using our new version of the CSP algorithm that extends the traditional CSP method for use with continuous limb movement data.	Paralyzed individuals can control the movement of an assistive device using changes in electroencephalographic (EEG) power resulting from attempted movements. Simultaneous, proportional control of two-dimensional (2D) device movements can be achieved with the concurrent modulation of brain activity that is associated with the attempted movement and rest of two independent body parts. Movement control may be improved by spatial filtering methods that recombine raw EEGs to form new signals with more focused information about the underlying brain activity. This study compared spatial filters offline for improving simultaneous proportional 2D movement commands from EEGs. Filtering options evaluated were common average referencing, Laplacian, independent component analysis, principle component analysis, and two novel ways of applying common spatial pattern (CSP) analysis. CSP analysis is a supervised algorithm that optimally recombines EEGs collected under two known conditions. Both CSP options resulted in more accurate movement prediction than the other filtering options. CSP was particularly advantageous when separating EEGs associated with neighboring or overlapping areas on the motor homunculus. Finally, CSP performed well using smaller subsets of filtered signals, thus making CSP practical and efficient for simultaneous 2D control. A 2D online cursor control example using CSP filtering is included to show CSP's utility.	Movement-assist devices such as neuromuscular stimulation systems can be used to generate movements in people with chronic hand paralysis due to stroke. If detectable, motor planning activity in the cortex could be used in real time to trigger a movement-assist device and restore a person's ability to perform many of the activities of daily living. Additionally, re-coupling motor planning in the cortex with assisted movement generation in the periphery may provide an even greater benefit-strengthening relevant synaptic connections over time to promote natural motor recovery. This study examined the potential for using electroencephalograms (EEGs) as a means of rapidly detecting the intent to open the hand during movement planning in individuals with moderate chronic hand paralysis following a subcortical ischemic stroke. On average, attempts to open the hand could be detected from EEGs approximately 100-500 ms prior to the first signs of movement onset. This earlier detection would minimize device activation delays and allow for tighter coupling between initial formation of the motor plan in the cortex and augmentation of that plan in the periphery by a movement-assist device. This tight temporal coupling may be important or even essential for strengthening synaptic connections and enhancing natural motor recovery.	This study examines the feasibility of using electroencephalograms (EEGs) to rapidly detect the intent to open one's hand in individuals with complete hand paralysis following a subcortical ischemic stroke. If detectable, this motor-planning activity could be used in real time to trigger a motorized hand exoskeleton or an electrical stimulation device that opens/closes the hand. While EEG-triggered movement-assist devices could restore function, they may also promote recovery by reinforcing the use of remaining cortical circuits. EEGs were recorded while participants were cued to either relax or attempt to extend their fingers. Linear-discriminant analysis was used to detect onset of finger-extension from the EEGs in a leave-one-trial-out cross-validation process. In each testing trial, the classifier was applied in pseudo-real-time starting from an initial hand-relaxed phase, through movement planning, and into the initial attempted-finger-extension phase (finger-extension phase estimated from typical time-to-movement-onset measured in the unaffected hand). The classifiers detected attempted-finger-extension at a significantly higher rate during both motor-planning and early attempted execution compared to rest. To reduce inappropriate triggering of a movement-assist device during rest, the classification threshold could be adjusted to require more certainty about one's intent to move before triggering a device. Additionally, a device could be set to activate only after multiple time samples in a row were classified as finger-extension events. These options resulted in some sessions with no false triggers while the person was resting, but moderate-to-high true trigger rates during attempted-movements.	Arm end-point position, end-point velocity, and the intended final location or 'goal' of a reach have all been decoded from cortical signals for use in brain-machine interface (BMI) applications. These different aspects of arm movement can be decoded from the brain and used directly to control the position, velocity, or movement goal of a device. However, these decoded parameters can also be remapped to control different aspects of movement, such as using the decoded position of the hand to control the velocity of a device. People easily learn to use the position of a joystick to control the velocity of an object in a videogame. Similarly, in BMI systems, the position, velocity, or goal of a movement could be decoded from the brain and remapped to control some other aspect of device movement. This study evaluates how easily people make transformations between position, velocity, and reach goal in BMI systems. It also evaluates how different amounts of decoding error impact on device control with and without these transformations. Results suggest some remapping options can significantly improve BMI control. This study provides guidance on what remapping options to use when various amounts of decoding error are present.	Many new assistive devices are available for individuals paralyzed below the neck due to spinal cord injury. Severely paralyzed individuals must be able to command their complex assistive devices using remaining activity from the neck up. Electromyographic (EMG) sensors enable people to use contractions of head and neck muscles to generate multiple proportional command signals. Electroencephalographic (EEG) signals can also be used to generate commands for assistive device control by conveying information about imagined or attempted movements. Fully-implanted wireless biopotential detection systems are now being developed to reliably detect EMGs, EEGs, or a mixture of the two from recording electrodes implanted just under the skin or scalp thus eliminating the need for externally worn hardware on the head or face. This present study shows how novel patterns of jaw muscle contractions, detected via biopotential sensors on the scalp surface or implanted just under the scalp, can be used to generate reliable discrete EMG commands, which can be differentiated from patterns generated during normal activities, such as chewing. These jaw contractions can be detected with sensors already in place to detect other muscle- or brain-based command signals thus adding to the functionality of current device control systems.
Ting, Angela	Genomic Medicine Institute	27605446	27257071	26673711	26628371	23710259	23233737	22673787	21990380	21698188	18413723	Prostate cancer is one of the most common malignancies in men worldwide. Current clinical screening ensures that most prostate cancers are diagnosed while still organ confined, but disease outcome is highly variable. Thus, a better understanding of the molecular features contributing to prostate cancer aggressiveness is being sought. For many cancers, aberrant genome-wide patterns of cytosine DNA methylation in CpG dinucleotides distinguish tumor from normal tissue and contribute to disease progression by altering the transcriptome. In prostate cancer, recent genomic studies identified cancer and high grade-specific differential DNA methylation in gene promoters, gene bodies, gene 3' ends and at distal regulatory elements. Using examples from developmental and disease systems, we will discuss how DNA methylation in each of these genomic contexts can contribute to transcriptome diversity by modulating transcription initiation, alternative transcription start site selection, alternative pre-mRNA splicing and alternative polyadenylation. Alternative transcripts from the same gene often exhibit altered protein-coding potential, translatability, stability and/or localization. All of these can have functional consequences in cells. In future work, it will be important to determine if DNA methylation abnormalities in prostate cancer modify the transcriptome through some or all of these mechanisms and if these DNA methylation-mediated transcriptome alterations impact prostate tumorigenesis and aggressiveness.	Bioinformatic analysis often produces large sets of genomic ranges that can be difficult to interpret in the absence of genomic context. Goldmine annotates genomic ranges from any source with gene model and feature contexts to facilitate global descriptions and candidate loci discovery. We demonstrate the value of genomic context by using Goldmine to elucidate context dynamics in transcription factor binding and to reveal differentially methylated regions (DMRs) with context-specific functional correlations. The open source R package and documentation for Goldmine are available at http://jeffbhasin.github.io/goldmine.	DNA methylation differences capture substantial information about the molecular and gene-regulatory states among biological subtypes. Enrichment-based next generation sequencing methods such as MBD-isolated genome sequencing (MiGS) and MeDIP-seq are appealing for studying DNA methylation genome-wide in order to distinguish between biological subtypes. However, current analytic tools do not provide optimal features for analyzing three-group or larger study designs. MethylAction addresses this need by detecting all possible patterns of statistically significant hyper- and hypo- methylation in comparisons involving any number of groups. Crucially, significance is established at the level of differentially methylated regions (DMRs), and bootstrapping determines false discovery rates (FDRs) associated with each pattern. We demonstrate this functionality in a four-group comparison among benign prostate and three clinical subtypes of prostate cancer and show that the bootstrap FDRs are highly useful in selecting the most robust patterns of DMRs. Compared to existing tools that are limited to two-group comparisons, MethylAction detects more DMRs with strong differential methylation measurements confirmed by whole genome bisulfite sequencing and offers a better balance between precision and recall in cross-cohort comparisons. MethylAction is available as an R package at http://jeffbhasin.github.io/methylaction. 	A critical need in understanding the biology of prostate cancer is characterizing the molecular differences between indolent and aggressive cases. Because DNA methylation can capture the regulatory state of tumors, we analyzed differential methylation patterns genome-wide among benign prostatic tissue and low-grade and high-grade prostate cancer and found extensive, focal hypermethylation regions unique to high-grade disease. These hypermethylation regions occurred not only in the promoters of genes but also in gene bodies and at intergenic regions that are enriched for DNA-protein binding sites. Integration with existing RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) and survival data revealed regions where DNA methylation correlates with reduced gene expression associated with poor outcome. Regions specific to aggressive disease are proximal to genes with distinct functions from regions shared by indolent and aggressive disease. Our compendium of methylation changes reveals crucial molecular distinctions between indolent and aggressive prostate cancer.	Allele-specific methylation (ASM) has long been studied but mainly documented in the context of genomic imprinting and X chromosome inactivation. Taking advantage of the next-generation sequencing technology, we conduct a high-throughput sequencing experiment with four prostate cell lines to survey the whole genome and identify single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) with ASM. A Bayesian approach is proposed to model the counts of short reads for each SNP conditional on its genotypes of multiple subjects, leading to a posterior probability of ASM. We flag SNPs with high posterior probabilities of ASM by accounting for multiple comparisons based on posterior false discovery rates. Applying the Bayesian approach to the in-house prostate cell line data, we identify 269 SNPs as candidates of ASM. A simulation study is carried out to demonstrate the quantitative performance of the proposed approach.	Recent epidemiologic data show that low serum cholesterol level as well as statin use is associated with a decreased risk of developing aggressive or advanced prostate cancer, suggesting a role for cholesterol in aggressive prostate cancer development. Intracellular cholesterol promotes prostate cancer progression as a substrate for de novo androgen synthesis and through regulation of AKT signaling. By conducting next-generation sequencing-based DNA methylome analysis, we have discovered marked hypermethylation at the promoter of the major cellular cholesterol efflux transporter, ABCA1, in LNCaP prostate cancer cells. ABCA1 promoter hypermethylation renders the promoter unresponsive to transactivation and leads to elevated cholesterol levels in LNCaP. ABCA1 promoter hypermethylation is enriched in intermediate- to high-grade prostate cancers and not detectable in benign prostate. Remarkably, ABCA1 downregulation is evident in all prostate cancers examined, and expression levels are inversely correlated with Gleason grade. Our results suggest that cancer-specific ABCA1 hypermethylation and loss of protein expression direct high intracellular cholesterol levels and hence contribute to an environment conducive to tumor progression.	Epigenetics dictate how the genetic blueprint is ultimately expressed and, therefore, is fundamental to our understanding of disease etiology and cellular responses and consequences to exposure of stimuli, such as anesthetics and perioperative stress. The goal of this review is to provide a concise overview of the fundamental concepts in epigenetics and discuss how epigenetics may be incorporated into research studies in anesthesiology. Chemical modifications of DNA and core histone proteins are epigenetic marks that constitute the functional genome and are key to generating diverse cellular phenotypes from the same genotype. These modifications and the cellular machineries that regulate them are essential for maintaining tissue-specific and timing-specific expression profiles for normal functioning and can be altered in disease contexts, thus providing the molecular basis for the abnormalities. Similar to determining cellular identity within a person, epigenetic differences between individuals, including monozygotic twins, can account for disparate phenotypes in the absence of genetic variation in the genes of interest. Furthermore, epigenetic modifications are dynamic but heritable and, thus, are fitting for reinforcing adaptive phenotypes in response to external stimuli. Epigenetic mechanisms underlie many human pathological conditions and impact clinical management in a variety of contexts. Although epigenetic research related to anesthesiology is sparse at the present, the full understanding of the mechanism of action of analgesics, interindividual variations in responses to anesthetics and consequences of exposure to anesthetic drugs will likely require the evaluation and integration of epigenetic information into current research paradigms.	A subset of colorectal cancers was postulated to have the CpG island methylator phenotype (CIMP), a higher propensity for CpG island DNA methylation. The validity of CIMP, its molecular basis, and its prognostic value remain highly controversial. Using MBD-isolated genome sequencing, we mapped and compared genome-wide DNA methylation profiles of normal, non-CIMP, and CIMP colon specimens. Multidimensional scaling analysis revealed that each specimen could be clearly classified as normal, non-CIMP, and CIMP, thus signifying that these three groups have distinctly different global methylation patterns. We discovered 3780 sites in various genomic contexts that were hypermethylated in both non-CIMP and CIMP colon cancers when compared with normal colon. An additional 2026 sites were found to be hypermethylated in CIMP tumors only; and importantly, 80% of these sites were located in CpG islands. These data demonstrate on a genome-wide level that the additional hypermethylation seen in CIMP tumors occurs almost exclusively at CpG islands and support definitively that these tumors were appropriately named. When these sites were examined more closely, we found that 25% were adjacent to sites that were also hypermethylated in non-CIMP tumors. Thus, CIMP is also characterized by more extensive methylation of sites that are already prone to be hypermethylated in colon cancer. These observations indicate that CIMP tumors have specific defects in controlling both DNA methylation seeding and spreading and serve as an important first step in delineating molecular mechanisms that control these processes.	Abnormal microRNA (miRNA) expression has been linked to the development and progression of several human cancers, and such dysregulation can result from aberrant DNA methylation. While a small number of miRNAs is known to be regulated by DNA methylation, we postulated that such epigenetic regulation is more prevalent. By combining MBD-isolated Genome Sequencing (MiGS) to evaluate genome-wide DNA methylation patterns and microarray analysis to determine miRNA expression levels, we systematically searched for candidate miRNAs regulated by DNA methylation in colorectal cancer cell lines. We found 64 miRNAs to be robustly methylated in HCT116 cells; eighteen of them were located in imprinting regions or already reported to be regulated by DNA methylation. For the remaining 46 miRNAs, expression levels of 18 were consistent with their DNA methylation status. Finally, 8 miRNAs were up-regulated by 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine treatment and identified to be novel miRNAs regulated by DNA methylation. Moreover, we demonstrated the functional relevance of these epigenetically silenced miRNAs by ectopically expressing select candidates, which resulted in inhibition of growth and migration of cancer cells. In addition to reporting these findings, our study also provides a reliable, systematic strategy to identify DNA methylation-regulated miRNAs by combining DNA methylation profiles and expression data.	Promoter hypermethylation is a prevalent phenomenon, found in virtually all cancer types studied thus far, and accounts for tumor suppressor gene silencing in the absence of genetic mutations. The mechanism behind the establishment and maintenance of such aberrant hypermethylation has been under intense study. Here, we have uncovered a link between aberrant gene silencing associated with promoter CpG island DNA methylation and the siRNA/miRNA processing enzyme, DICER, in human cancer cells. By comparing demethylated HCT116 colon cancer cells with HCT116 cells genetically rendered hypomorphic for DICER, we identified a group of epigenetically silenced genes that became reactivated in the absence of functional DICER. This reactivation is associated with a dramatic loss of localized promoter DNA hypermethylation. Thus, intact DICER is required to maintain full promoter DNA hypermethylation of select epigenetically silenced loci in human cancer cells.
Tonelli, Adriano	Inflammation and Immunity	30621691	30063259	29771822	29698719	29671686	29377954	29323451	28947049	28840954	28643420	Little is known on the pulmonary gradients of oxyhemoglobin, carboxyhemoglobin and methemoglobin in pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). We sought to determine these gradients in group 1 PAH and assess their association with disease severity and survival. During right heart catheterization (RHC) we obtained blood from pulmonary artery (PA) and pulmonary artery wedge (PAW) positions and used co-oximetry to test their gasometric differences. We included a total of 130 patients, 65 had group 1 PAH, 40 had pulmonary hypertension (PH) from groups 2-5 and 25 had no PH during RHC. In all groups, PAW blood had higher pH, carboxyhemoglobin and lactate as well as lower pCO2 than PA blood. In group 1 PAH (age 58 ± 15 years, 72% females), methemoglobin in the PAW was lower than in the PA blood (0.83% ± 0.43 vs 0.95% ± 0.50, p = 0.03) and was directly associated with the degree of change in pulmonary vascular resistance (R = 0.35, p = 0.02) during inhaled nitric oxide test. Oxyhemoglobin in PA (HR (95%CI): 0.90 (0.82-0.99), p = 0.04) and PAW (HR (95%CI): 0.91 (0.84-0.98), p = 0.003) blood was associated with adjusted survival in PAH. Marked differences were observed in the gasometric determinations between PAW and PA blood. The pulmonary gradient of methemoglobin was lower in PAH patients compared to controls and a higher PAW blood methemoglobin was associated with a more pronounced pulmonary vascular response to inhaled nitric oxide. Pulmonary artery and PAW oxyhemoglobin tracked with disease severity and survival in PAH.	Portopulmonary hypertension (PoPH) is a form of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) that can develop as a complication of portal hypertension. Treatment of PoPH includes PAH-specific therapies, and in certain cases, such therapies are necessary to facilitate a successful liver transplantation. A significant number of barriers may limit the adequate treatment of patients with PoPH and explain the poorer survival of these patients when compared to patients with other types of PAH. Until recently, only one randomized controlled trial has included PoPH patients, and the majority of treatment data have been derived from relatively small observational studies. In the present article, we review some of the barriers in the treatment of patients with PoPH and implications for liver transplantation.	Peripheral capillary oxygen saturation (SpO2) is used as surrogate for arterial blood oxygen saturation. We studied the degree of discrepancy between SpO2 and arterial oxygen (SaO2) and identified parameters that may explain this difference. We included patients who underwent cardiopulmonary exercise testing at Cleveland Clinic. Pulse oximeters with forehead probes measured SpO2 and arterial blood gas samples provided the SaO2 both at rest and peak exercise. We included 751 patients, 54 ± 16 yr old with 53% of female gender. Bland-Altman analysis revealed a bias of 3.8% with limits of agreement of 0.3% to 7.9% between SpO2 and SaO2 at rest. A total of 174 (23%) patients had SpO2 ≥ 5% of SaO2, and these individuals were older, current smokers with lower forced expiratory volume in the first second and higher partial pressure of carbon dioxide and carboxyhemoglobin. At peak exercise (n = 631), 75 (12%) SpO2 values were lower than the SaO2 determinations reflecting difficulties in the SpO2 measurement in some patients. The bias between SpO2 and SaO2 was 2.6% with limits of agreement between -2.9% and 8.1%. Values of SpO2 ≥ 5% of SaO2 (n = 78, 12%) were associated with the significant resting variables plus lower heart rate, oxygen consumption, and oxygen pulse. In multivariate analyses, carboxyhemoglobin remained significantly associated with the difference between SpO2 and SaO2 both at rest and peak exercise. In the present study, pulse oximetry commonly overestimated the SaO2. Increased carboxyhemoglobin levels are independently associated with the difference between SpO2 and SaO2, a finding particularly relevant in smokers.	Serum chloride is an important homeostatic biomarker in left heart failure, with significant prognostic implications. The impact of serum chloride in the long-term survival of patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is unknown. We tested whether serum chloride levels are associated with long-term survival in patients with PAH. We included patients with idiopathic or heritable PAH who had a basic metabolic panel performed at the time of their diagnostic right heart catheterization. Laboratory results were recorded both at diagnosis and 6-month follow-up. We included 277 patients, mean age 51 ± 18 years and 73% women, of whom 254 had a follow-up electrolyte determination at 6 months. Serum chloride was 102.9 ± 3.9 mM/L at diagnosis. A serum chloride ≤ 100 mM/L was noted in 65 (24%) and 53 (21%) patients at diagnosis and 6 months, respectively. Patients with serum chloride ≤ 100 mM/L at 6 months tracked with increase mortality when adjusted by age, sex, pulmonary vascular resistance, diuretics or prostacyclin analogs usage, and serum creatinine and sodium at 6 months (hazard ratio, 1.83; 95% CI, 1.11-3.00). This group of patients was older, with decreased functional capacity, had worse renal function, took more diuretics, had higher pulmonary artery wedge pressure but lower mean pulmonary artery pressure, transpulmonary gradient, and pulmonary vascular resistance. Serum chloride at 6 months from the PAH diagnosis is a strong and independent predictor of mortality in patients with idiopathic or heritable PAH, even after adjusting serum sodium, renal function, diuretic, and prostacyclin analog usage.	The diagnosis of pulmonary hypertension (PH) requires a right heart catheterization (RHC) that reveals a mean pulmonary artery pressure ≥ 25 mmHg. The pulmonary artery catheter traverse the right atrium and ventricle on its way to the pulmonary artery. The presence of abnormal right heart structures, i.e. thrombus, vegetation, benign or malignant cardiac lesions, can lead to complications during this procedure. On the other hand, avoidance of RHC delays the diagnosis and treatment of PH, an approach that might be associated with worse outcomes. This paper discusses the impact of right heart lesions on the diagnosis of PH and suggests an approach on how to manage this association.	The prevalence and prognostic implications of hypoxemia either at rest or during six-minute walk test (6MWT) in patients with idiopathic or heritable pulmonary arterial hypertension (IPAH or HPAH) have not been systemically studied. We sought to determine the prevalence, phenotypic and prognostic implications of hypoxemia in patients with IPAH and HPAH. Patients with IPAH or HPAH were identified from the Cleveland Clinic Pulmonary Hypertension Registry. Pulse oximetry (SpO2) at rest and during 6MWT was used to define hypoxemia at rest or during activities when measurements were lower than 90%, respectively. A total of 292 patients (age 50.6 ± 18.0 years, 73% females) with IPAH (88%) and HPAH (12%) were included. Of them, 143 (49%) had SpO2 &gt;90% at rest and during 6MWT, 89 (31%) subjects had hypoxemia during 6MWT and 60 (20%) had hypoxemia at rest. Patients with hypoxemia had older age, greater body mass index, higher prevalence of cardiovascular risk factors, worse functional capacity and pulmonary function tests but less severe pre-capillary pulmonary hypertension. Individuals with hypoxemia either at rest or during the initial 6MWT had worse long-term survival when compared to subjects without hypoxemia, even when adjusting for a great number of potential confounders. (HR: 2.5 (95% CI: 1.54-3.98)). Hypoxemia in patients with IPAH and HPAH is associated with more comorbidities, less severe pre-capillary pulmonary hypertension and worse survival.	Microvascular changes play central roles in the pathophysiology of SSc and SLE, and represent major causes of morbidity and mortality in these patients. Therefore, clinical tools that can assess the microvasculature are of great importance both at the time of diagnosis and follow-up of these cases. These tools include capillaroscopy, laser imaging techniques, infrared thermography, and iontophoresis. In this review, we examined the clinical manifestations and pathobiology of microvascular involvement in SSc and SLE as well as the methodologies used to evaluate the microvasculature.	Management of pulmonary hypertension (PH) has remained an unmet need in advanced left heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. In fact, patients are frequently denied heart transplant due to untreated pulmonary hypertension. The availability of mechanically circulatory devices and PH therapies has provided a ray of hope. PH specific therapies are currently not FDA approved for patients with left heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. However, clinicians have used these medications in anecdotal manner. With this review, we want to highlight the expanding use of PH specific therapy and mechanical circulatory devices in the management of PH in the setting of advanced heart failure with reduced ejection fraction.	The number of cardiac cycles that need to be reviewed by echocardiography before a significant intrapulmonary shunt can be excluded remains unclear. We retrospectively identified patients with cirrhosis who underwent technetium-99 m-labeled macroaggregated albumin scanning. The kinetics of bubble appearance after the injection of agitated saline during transthoracic echocardiograms were assessed in these patients. For the 64 eligible patients, the mean ± SD age was 56 ± 9 years. The median (IQR) shunt fraction by radionuclide scanning was 7.7% (2.8%-19.9%). Microbubbles were seen in the left atrium (LA) and left ventricle (LV) at a median (IQR) of 4 (2-5) and 4 (2-5) beats, respectively. The number of heart cycles before microbubbles appeared in the LA or LV was inversely associated with the nuclear scanning shunt fraction (R = -0.42, P = .001, R = -0.46, P &lt; .001, respectively). If no microbubbles were detected by heart cycle 7, the shunt fraction was uniformly less than 3%. Patients with arterial oxygen &lt;60 mm Hg, compared to ≥60 mm Hg, had earlier appearance of microbubbles in the left heart chambers (2.6 ± 1.9 vs 4.0 ± 2.3 beats, P = .046). In patients with advanced cirrhosis suspected of having hepatopulmonary syndrome, a greater shunt fraction during nuclear scanning was associated with more pronounced hypoxemia and a prompt and more intense appearance of microbubbles in the left-sided heart chambers. Patients with a shunt fraction above 3% have microbubbles in the LA or LV at some point during the first seven heart cycles.	Anticoagulation is a common treatment modality in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). Further studies are needed to appropriately assess the risk/benefit ratio of anticoagulation, particularly in PAH patients receiving PAH-specific therapies. We use observational long-term data on PAH patients treated with subcutaneous (SQ) treprostinil from a large open-label study. Patients were followed for up to 4 years. The use of warfarin and bleeding events were recorded. At total of 860 patients (age [mean±SD] 46±15 years, 76% female, 83% Caucasian, 49% idiopathic PAH, and 76% New York Heart Association [NYHA] functional class III) were included. All patients received SQ treprostinil (15% also other pulmonary hypertension [PH]-therapies) and 590 (69%) received warfarin during the study. The proportions of women, African American, and idiopathic pulmonary hypertension (IPAH) patients were higher in the group receiving warfarin. A higher proportion of patients with congenital heart disease and portopulmonary hypertension did not receive warfarin. There were no differences in unadjusted long-term survival between PAH patients receiving warfarin or not (log-rank test, P value=.69), even when only considering idiopathic PAH (P=.32). In addition, no difference was found in adjusted long-term survival both in PAH (P=.84) and idiopathic PAH patients (P=.44) based on the use of warfarin. Furthermore, no survival difference based on the use of warfarin were noted between propensity score-matched PAH patients (P=.37). Long-term anticoagulation with warfarin was not associated with any significant effect on survival in PAH or idiopathic PAH patients treated with SQ treprostinil.
Trapp, Bruce	Neurosciences	30215581	30143361	29754529	29361242	29274095	28833377	27872255	25750925	25693054	25066805	Dr Bruce Trapp and Dr Daniel Ontaneda speak to Laura Dormer, Commissioning Editor: Bruce D Trapp, PhD, is a Chair of the Department of Neurosciences at the Lerner Research Institute, Cleveland Clinic (OH, USA) and Professor of Molecular Medicine at Case Western Reserve University (OH, USA). Dr Trapp received his PhD from Loyola University Stritch School of Medicine in Chicago (IL, USA). Dr Trapp's research investigates the cause of neurological disability in multiple sclerosis patients, cellular mechanism of brain repair in neurodegenerative diseases and the molecular biology of myelination in the central and peripheral nervous systems. Daniel Ontaneda, MD, is a staff neurologist at the Cleveland Clinic Mellen Center for Multiple Sclerosis. Dr Ontaneda earned his MD from the Universidad Católica del Ecuador and MSc in clinical research from Case Western Reserve University. He completed a postdoctoral fellowship at Baylor College of Medicine, followed by neurology and neuroimmunology training at the Cleveland Clinic. His specialties include acute disseminated encephalomyelitis, Devic's disease (neuromyelitis optica), multiple sclerosis, neuroimmunology, optic neuritis and transverse myelitis.	Demyelination of cerebral white matter is thought to drive neuronal degeneration and permanent neurological disability in individuals with multiple sclerosis. Findings from brain MRI studies, however, support the possibility that demyelination and neuronal degeneration can occur independently. We aimed to establish whether post-mortem brains from patients with multiple sclerosis show pathological evidence of cortical neuronal loss that is independent of cerebral white-matter demyelination. Brains and spinal cords were removed at autopsy from patients, who had died with multiple sclerosis, at the Cleveland Clinic in Cleveland, OH, USA. Visual examination of centimetre-thick slices of cerebral hemispheres was done to identify brains without areas of cerebral white-matter discoloration that were indicative of demyelinated lesions (referred to as myelocortical multiple sclerosis) and brains that had cerebral white-matter discolorations or demyelinated lesions (referred to as typical multiple sclerosis). These individuals with myelocortical multiple sclerosis were matched by age, sex, MRI protocol, multiple sclerosis disease subtype, disease duration, and Expanded Disability Status Scale, with individuals with typical multiple sclerosis. Demyelinated lesion area in tissue sections of cerebral white matter, spinal cord, and cerebral cortex from individuals classed as having myelocortical and typical multiple sclerosis were compared using myelin protein immunocytochemistry. Neuronal densities in cortical layers III, V, and VI from five cortical regions not directly connected to spinal cord (cingulate gyrus and inferior frontal cortex, superior temporal cortex, and superior insular cortex and inferior insular cortex) were also compared between the two groups and with aged-matched post-mortem brains from individuals without evidence of neurological disease. Brains and spinal cords were collected from 100 deceased patients between May, 1998, and November, 2012, and this retrospective study was done between Sept 6, 2011, and Feb 2, 2018. 12 individuals were identified as having myelocortical multiple sclerosis and were compared with 12 individuals identified as having typical multiple sclerosis. Demyelinated lesions were detected in spinal cord and cerebral cortex, but not in cerebral white matter, of people with myelocortical multiple sclerosis. Cortical demyelinated lesion area was similar between myelocortical and typical multiple sclerosis (median 4·45% [IQR 2·54-10·81] in myelocortical vs 9·74% [1·35-19·50] in typical multiple sclerosis; p=0·5512). Spinal cord demyelinated area was significantly greater in typical than in myelocortical multiple sclerosis (median 3·81% [IQR 1·72-7·42] in myelocortical vs 13·81% [6·51-29·01] in typical multiple sclerosis; p=0·0083). Despite the lack of cerebral white-matter demyelination in myelocortical multiple sclerosis, mean cortical neuronal densities were significantly decreased compared with control brains (349·8 neurons per mm<sup>2</sup> [SD 51·9] in myelocortical multiple sclerosis vs 419·0 [43·6] in controls in layer III [p=0·0104]; 355·6 [46·5] vs 454·2 [48·3] in layer V [p=0·0006]; 366·6 [50·9] vs 458·3 [48·4] in layer VI [p=0·0049]). By contrast, mean cortical neuronal densities were decreased in typical multiple sclerosis brains compared with those from controls in layer V (392·5 [59·0] vs 454·2 [48·3]; p=0·0182) but not layers III and VI. We propose that myelocortical multiple sclerosis is a subtype of multiple sclerosis that is characterised by demyelination of spinal cord and cerebral cortex but not of cerebral white matter. Cortical neuronal loss is not accompanied by cerebral white-matter demyelination and can be an independent pathological event in myelocortical multiple sclerosis. Compared with control brains, cortical neuronal loss was greater in myelocortical multiple sclerosis cortex than in typical multiple sclerosis cortex. The molecular mechanisms of primary neuronal degeneration and axonal pathology in myelocortical multiple sclerosis should be investigated in future studies. US National Institutes of Health and National Multiple Sclerosis Society.	NA	Purpose To determine if magnetic resonance (MR) imaging metrics can estimate primary motor cortex (PMC) motor neuron (MN) density in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Materials and Methods Between 2012 and 2014, in situ brain MR imaging was performed in 11 patients with ALS (age range, 35-81 years; seven women and four men) soon after death (mean, 5.5 hours after death; range, 3.2-9.6 hours). The brain was removed, right PMC (RPMC) was excised, and MN density was quantified. RPMC metrics (thickness, volume, and magnetization transfer ratio) were calculated from MR images. Regression modeling was used to estimate MN density by using RPMC and global MR imaging metrics (brain and tissue volumes); clinical variables were subsequently evaluated as additional estimators. Models were tested at in vivo MR imaging by using the same imaging protocol (six patients with ALS; age range, 54-66 years; three women and three men). Results RPMC mean MN density varied over a greater than threefold range across patients and was estimated by a linear function of normalized gray matter volume (adjusted R<sup>2</sup> = 0.51; P = .008; &lt;10% error in most patients). When considering only sporadic ALS, a linear function of normalized RPMC and white matter volumes estimated MN density (adjusted R<sup>2</sup> = 0.98; P = .01; &lt;10% error in all patients). In vivo data analyses detected decreases in MN density over time. Conclusion PMC mean MN density varies widely in end-stage ALS possibly because of disease heterogeneity. MN density can potentially be estimated by MR imaging metrics. <sup>©</sup> RSNA, 2018 Online supplemental material is available for this article.	Fragile X Syndrome (FXS) is the major cause of inherited mental retardation and the leading genetic cause of Autism spectrum disorders. FXS is caused by mutations in the Fragile X Mental Retardation 1 (Fmr1) gene, which results in transcriptional silencing of Fragile X Mental Retardation Protein (FMRP). To elucidate cellular mechanisms involved in the pathogenesis of FXS, we compared dendritic spines in the hippocampal CA1 region of adult wild-type (WT) and Fmr1 knockout (Fmr1-KO) mice. Using diolistic labeling, confocal microscopy, and three-dimensional electron microscopy, we show a significant increase in the diameter of secondary dendrites, an increase in dendritic spine density, and a decrease in mature dendritic spines in adult Fmr1-KO mice. While WT and Fmr1-KO mice had the same mean density of spines, the variance in spine density was three times greater in Fmr1-KO mice. Reduced astrocyte participation in the tripartite synapse and less mature post-synaptic densities were also found in Fmr1-KO mice. We investigated whether the increase in synaptic spine density was associated with altered synaptic pruning during development. Our data are consistent with reduced microglia-mediated synaptic pruning in the CA1 region of Fmr1-KO hippocampi when compared with WT littermates at postnatal day 21, which is the peak period of synaptic pruning in the mouse hippocampus. Collectively, these results support abnormal synaptogenesis and synaptic remodeling in mice deficient in FMRP. Deficits in the maturation and distribution of synaptic spines on dendrites of CA1 hippocampal neurons may play a role in the intellectual disabilities associated with FXS.	Detecting cortical demyelination in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) is difficult. Using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), ratio maps of T1-weighted (T1w) and T2-weighted (T2w) images may be sensitive to cortical myelin levels. In this MRI-histological study, postmortem in situ scans were acquired from 6 cadavers with MS on a 3T MRI machine. Immunocytochemistry was used to correlate myelin status and cortical T1w/T2w measures. The results showed that the T1w/T2w values significantly differed between demyelinated and myelinated cortex (p &lt; 0.001). The T1w/T2w ratio maps may be a relatively simple, clinically feasible method to assess cortical demyelination. Ann Neurol 2017;82:635-639.	Hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP) is a neurological syndrome characterized by degeneration of central nervous system (CNS) axons. Mutated HSP proteins include myelin proteolipid protein (PLP) and axon-enriched proteins involved in mitochondrial function, smooth endoplasmic reticulum (SER) structure, and microtubule (MT) stability/function. We characterized axonal mitochondria, SER, and MTs in rodent optic nerves where PLP is replaced by the peripheral nerve myelin protein, P0 (P0-CNS mice). Mitochondrial pathology and degeneration were prominent in juxtaparanodal axoplasm at 1 mo of age. In wild-type (WT) optic nerve axons, 25% of mitochondria-SER associations occurred on extensions of the mitochondrial outer membrane. Mitochondria-SER associations were reduced by 86% in 1-mo-old P0-CNS juxtaparanodal axoplasm. 1-mo-old P0-CNS optic nerves were more sensitive to oxygen-glucose deprivation and contained less adenosine triphosphate (ATP) than WT nerves. MT pathology and paranodal axonal ovoids were prominent at 6 mo. These data support juxtaparanodal mitochondrial degeneration, reduced mitochondria-SER associations, and reduced ATP production as causes of axonal ovoid formation and axonal degeneration.	Cognitive decline is a common symptom in multiple sclerosis patients, with profound effects on the quality of life. A nonhuman primate model of multiple sclerosis would be best suited to test the effects of demyelination on complex cognitive functions such as learning and reasoning. Cuprizone has been shown to reliably induce brain demyelination in mice. To establish a nonhuman primate model of multiple sclerosis, young adult cynomolgus monkeys were administered cuprizone per os as a dietary supplement. The subjects received increasing cuprizone doses (0.3-3% of diet) for up to 18 weeks. Magnetic resonance imaging and immunohistological analyses did not reveal demyelination in these monkeys. 	Microglia were first identified over a century ago, but our knowledge about their ontogeny and functions has significantly expanded only recently. Microglia colonize the central nervous system (CNS) in utero and play essential roles in brain development. Once neural development is completed, microglia function as the resident innate immune cells of the CNS by surveying their microenvironment and becoming activated when the CNS is challenged by infection, injury, or disease. Despite the traditional view of microglia as being destructive in neurological diseases, recent studies have shown that microglia maintain CNS homeostasis and protect the CNS under various pathological conditions. Microglia can be prophylactically activated by modeling infection with systemic lipopolysaccharide injections and these activated microglia can protect the brain from traumatic injury through modulation of neuronal synapses. Microglia can also protect the CNS by promoting neurogenesis, clearing debris, and suppressing inflammation in diseases such as stroke, autism, and Alzheimer's. Microglia are the resident innate immune cells of the CNS. Despite the traditional view of microglia as being destructive in neurological diseases, recent studies have shown that they maintain tissue homeostasis and protect the CNS under various pathological conditions. They achieve so by clearing debris, promoting neurogenesis, suppressing inflammation and stripping inhibitory synapses. This review summarizes recent advances of our understanding on the multi-dimensional neuroprotective roles of microglia. 	The central nervous system (CNS) of terrestrial vertebrates underwent a prominent molecular change when proteolipid protein (PLP) replaced P0 protein as the most abundant protein of CNS myelin. However, PLP did not replace P0 in peripheral nervous system (PNS) myelin. To investigate the possible consequences of a PLP to P0 shift in PNS myelin, we engineered mice to express PLP instead of P0 in PNS myelin (PLP-PNS mice). PLP-PNS mice had severe neurological disabilities and died between 3 and 6 months of age. Schwann cells in sciatic nerves from PLP-PNS mice sorted axons into one-to-one relationships but failed to form myelin internodes. Mice with equal amounts of P0 and PLP had normal PNS myelination and lifespans similar to wild-type (WT) mice. When PLP was overexpressed with one copy of the P0 gene, sciatic nerves were hypomyelinated; mice displayed motor deficits, but had normal lifespans. These data support the hypothesis that while PLP can co-exist with P0 in PNS myelin, PLP cannot replace P0 as the major structural protein of PNS myelin.
Tuohy, Vincent	Inflammation and Immunity	29093011	28428886	27322324	26618181	25670003	25274653	25172043	24105638	22993071	23344231	Epithelial ovarian carcinoma (EOC) is the most prevalent form of ovarian cancer in the United States, representing approximately 85% of all cases and causing more deaths than any other gynecologic malignancy. We propose that optimized control of EOC requires the incorporation of a vaccine capable of inducing safe and effective preemptive immunity in cancer-free women. In addition, we hypothesize that ovarian-specific self-proteins that are &quot;retired&quot; from autoimmune-inducing expression levels as ovaries age but are expressed at high levels in emerging EOC may serve as vaccine targets for mediating safe and effective primary immunoprevention. Here, we show that expression of the extracellular domain of anti-Müllerian hormone receptor II (AMHR2-ED) in normal tissues is confined exclusively to the human ovary, drops to nonautoimmune inducing levels in postmenopausal ovaries, and is at high levels in approximately 90% of human EOC. We found that AMHR2-ED vaccination significantly inhibits growth of murine EOC and enhances overall survival without inducing oophoritis in aged female mice. The observed inhibition of EOC growth was mediated substantially by induction of AMHR2-ED-specific IgG antibodies that agonize receptor signaling of a Bax/caspase-3-dependent proapoptotic cascade. Our results indicate that AMHR2-ED vaccination may be particularly useful in providing safe and effective preemptive immunity against EOC in women at high genetic or familial risk who have the greatest need for a preventive vaccine and ultimately in cancer-free postmenopausal women who account for 75% of all EOC cases. Cancer Prev Res; 10(11); 612-24. ©2017 AACRSee related editorial by Shoemaker et al., p. 607.	Testicular cancer is the most common male neoplasm occurring in men between the ages of 20 and 34. Although germ-line testicular tumors respond favorably to current standard of care, testicular stromal cell (TSC) tumors derived from Sertoli cells or Leydig cells often fail to respond to chemotherapy or radiation therapy and have a 5-year overall survival significantly lower than the more common and more treatable germ line testicular tumors. To improve outcomes for TSC cancer, we have developed a therapeutic vaccine targeting inhibin-α, a protein produced by normal Sertoli and Leydig cells of the testes and expressed in the majority of TSC tumors. We found that vaccination against recombinant mouse inhibin-α provides protection and therapy against transplantable I-10 mouse TSC tumors in male BALB/c mice. Similarly, we found that vaccination with the immunodominant p215-234 peptide of inhibin-α (Inα 215-234) inhibits the growth of autochthonous TSC tumors occurring in male SJL.AMH-SV40Tag transgenic mice. The tumor immunity and enhanced overall survival induced by inhibin-α vaccination may be passively transferred into naive male BALB/c recipients with either CD4+ T cells, B220+ B cells, or sera from inhibin-α primed mice. Considering the lack of any alternative effective treatment for chemo- and radiation-resistant TSC tumors, our results provide for the first time a rational basis for immune-mediated control of these aggressive and lethal variants of testicular cancer.	We have proposed that safe and effective protection against the development of adult onset cancers may be achieved by vaccination against tissue-specific self-proteins that are &quot;retired&quot; from expression at immunogenic levels in normal tissues as we age, but are overexpressed in emerging tumors. α-Lactalbumin is an example of a &quot;retired&quot; self-protein because its expression in normal tissues is confined exclusively to the breast during late pregnancy and lactation, but is also expressed in the vast majority of human triple negative breast cancers (TNBC)-the most aggressive and lethal form of breast cancer and the predominant form that occurs in women at high genetic risk including those with mutated BRCA1 genes. In anticipation of upcoming clinical trials, here we provide preclinical data indicating that α-lactalbumin has the potential as a vaccine target for inducing safe and effective primary immunoprevention as well as immunotherapy against TNBC. 	Anti-Müllerian hormone receptor, type II (AMHR2), is a differentiation protein expressed in 90% of primary epithelial ovarian carcinomas (EOCs), the most deadly gynecologic malignancy. We propose that AMHR2 may serve as a useful target for vaccination against EOC. To this end, we generated the recombinant 399-amino acid cytoplasmic domain of mouse AMHR2 (AMHR2-CD) and tested its efficacy as a vaccine target in inhibiting growth of the ID8 transplantable EOC cell line in C57BL/6 mice and in preventing growth of autochthonous EOCs that occur spontaneously in transgenic mice. We found that AMHR2-CD immunization of C57BL/6 females induced a prominent antigen-specific proinflammatory CD4+ T cell response that resulted in a mild transient autoimmune oophoritis that resolved rapidly with no detectable lingering adverse effects on ovarian function. AMHR2-CD vaccination significantly inhibited ID8 tumor growth when administered either prophylactically or therapeutically, and protection against EOC growth was passively transferred into naive recipients with AMHR2-CD-primed CD4+ T cells but not with primed B cells. In addition, prophylactic AMHR2-CD vaccination of TgMISIIR-TAg transgenic mice significantly inhibited growth of autochthonous EOCs and provided a 41.7% increase in mean overall survival. We conclude that AMHR2-CD vaccination provides effective immunotherapy of EOC with relatively benign autoimmune complications. 	Multiple sclerosis (MS) is widely viewed as a prototypic human autoimmune disease involving proinflammatory T cells that induce lesions in the central nervous system (CNS) in response to myelin self proteins. Although the impact of sex hormones on MS is well recognized, the converse effects of autoimmunity on sex hormones are still unclear. The current study was designed to assess the impact of CNS autoimmunity on female reproductive physiology. In order to identify subtle hormonal disturbances as a result of autoimmunity, we analyzed the estrous cycle in SJL/J mice after active induction of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model with substantial similarities to MS. Here we show that CNS autoimmunity significantly shortens the murine estrous cycle. This shortening of the estrous cycle is characterized by a dramatic decrease in the length of the metestrus-diestrus luteal phase partially offset by a highly significant but less dramatic elongation of the proestrus-estrus follicular phase of the uterine cycle. Thus, our study provides experimental evidence for a direct causal link between CNS autoimmunity and disruption of the homeostatic balance of the uterine cycle often observed in women with MS. 	Despite the success of childhood vaccination against infectious diseases, vaccines are lacking against diseases that occur with age. We are developing a vaccine to prevent breast cancer. This article explains the vaccine strategy, how we think the vaccine will work, and how we plan to move forward through clinical trials. 	We propose that optimized control of adult-onset cancers requires the incorporation of a defense-based strategy in the form of preemptive immunity induced in healthy cancer-free subjects prior to the appearance of tumors. However, development of such prophylactic immunity has traditionally targeted etiopathogenic agents. We propose that in the absence of available cancer-inducing pathogens, safe and effective protection against the emergence of tumors may be achieved by inducing targeted immunity against tissue-specific self-proteins that are 'retired' from expression at immunogenic levels in normal tissues due to the normal aging process, but are expressed in emerging tumors. Thus, 'retired' self-proteins may substitute for unavailable pathogens as targets for developing prophylactic immunity against tumors we confront with age like breast, ovarian and prostate cancer. Our current efforts involve testing this primary 'immunoprevention' strategy in clinical trials focused on prevention of the more aggressive and lethal forms of breast cancer. 	Sunitinib, a protein tyrosine kinase inhibitor is the frontline therapy for renal and gastrointestinal cancers. We hypothesized that by virtue of its well documented tumor apoptosis and immune adjuvant properties, combination of Sunitinib with anti-tumor immunotherapeutics will provide synergistic inhibition of tumor growth. Our study was designed to evaluate the impact of Sunitinib on immunotherapy mediated anti-tumor immune responses and evaluate its efficacy as a combinatorial therapy with tumor targeted immunotherapeutic vaccination. Mice immunized with recombinant α-lactalbumin, a lactation protein expressed on majority of breast tumors were treated with 1 mg of Sunitinib for seven consecutive days beginning (1) concurrently, on the day of α-lactalbumin immunization or (2) sequentially, on day 9 after immunization. Ten-day lymph nodes or 21 day spleens were tested by ELISPOT assays and flow cytometry to evaluate responsiveness to α-lactalbumin immunization in presence of Sunitinib and distribution of cells involved in T cell antigen priming and proliferation in different lymphoid compartments. In addition, therapeutic efficacy of the α-lactalbumin/ Sunitinib combination was evaluated by monitoring tumor growth in the 4T1 transplanted tumor model. Our studies reveal that concurrent administration of Sunitinib with active vaccination against a targeted tumor antigen inhibits priming to the immunogen due to a drastic decrease in CD11b+CD11c+ antigen presenting cells, leading to failure of vaccination. However, sequential delivery of Sunitinib timed to avoid the priming phase of vaccination results in the desired vaccination mediated boost in immune responses. 	We previously reported that mice with experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), a model of multiple sclerosis (MS), develop profound urinary bladder dysfunction. Because neurogenic bladder in MS patients causes marked bladder remodeling, we next examined morphometric and molecular alterations of the bladder in EAE mice. EAE was created in female SJL/J mice by immunization with the p139-151 encephalitogenic peptide of myelin proteolipid protein in complete Freund's adjuvant, along with intraperitoneal injections of Bordetella pertussis toxin. Seventy days after immunization, mice were scored for the level of neurological impairment and then killed. Spinal cord sections were assessed for demyelination, inflammation, and T cell infiltration; the composition of the bladder tissue was measured quantitatively; and gene expression of markers of tissue remodeling and fibrosis was assessed. A significant increase in the bladder weight-to-body weight ratio was observed with increasing neurological impairment, and morphometric analysis showed marked bladder remodeling with increased luminal area and tissue hypertrophy. Despite increased amounts of all tissue components (urothelium, smooth muscle, and connective tissue), the ratio of connective tissue to muscle increased significantly in EAE mice compared with control mice. Marked increases in mRNA expression of collagen type I α(2), tropoelastin, transforming growth factor-β3, and connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) were observed in EAE mice, as were decreased levels of mRNAs for smooth muscle myosin heavy chain, nerve growth factors, and muscarinic and purinergic receptors. Our results suggest that bladder remodeling corresponding to EAE severity may be due to enhanced expression of CTGF and increased growth of connective tissue.	The pathophysiology of chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CP/CPPS) is poorly understood. Inflammatory and autoimmune mechanisms may play a role. We developed a murine model of experimental autoimmune prostatitis (EAP) that mimics the human phenotype of CP/CPPS. Eight-week-old mice were immunized subcutaneously with prostate-specific peptides in an emulsion of complete Freund's adjuvant. Mice were euthanized 10 days after immunization, and lymph node cells were isolated and assessed for recall proliferation to each peptide. P25 99-118 was the most immunogenic peptide. T-cell and B-cell immunity and serum levels of C-reactive protein and nitrate/nitrite levels were evaluated over a 9-wk period. Morphometric studies of prostate, 24-h micturition frequencies, and urine volume per void were evaluated. Tactile referred hyperalgesia was measured using von Frey filaments to the pelvic region. The unpaired Student's t-test was used to analyze differences between EAP and control groups. Prostates from p25 99-118-immunized mice demonstrated elevated gene expression levels of TNF-α, IL-17A, IFN-γ, and IL-1β, not observed in control mice. Compared with controls, p25 99-118-immunized mice had significantly higher micturition frequency and decreased urine output per void, and they demonstrated elevated pelvic pain response. p25 99-118 immunization of male SWXJ mice induced prostate-specific autoimmunity characterized by prostate-confined inflammation, increased micturition frequency, and pelvic pain. This autoimmune prostatitis model provides a useful tool for exploring the pathophysiology and new treatments.
Valujskikh, Anna	Inflammation and Immunity	31092872	28397358	29243390	28293238	27888576	27020853	26912319	26323072	25548230	25496308	Aquaporins (AQPs) are water channels that mediate a variety of biological processes. However, their role in the immune system is poorly understood. We recently reported that AQP4 is expressed by naïve and memory T cells and that AQP4 blockade with a small molecule inhibitor prolongs murine heart allograft survival at least partially through diminishing T cell activation, proliferation and trafficking. The goal of this study was to determine how AQP4 function impacts T cells in the absence of antigen stimulation. AQP4 inhibition transiently reduced the number of circulating CD4+ and CD8+ T cells in naïve non-transplanted mice in the absence of systemic T cell depletion. Adoptive transfer studies demonstrated T cell intrinsic effect of AQP4 inhibition. AQP4 blockade altered T cell gene and protein expression of chemokine receptors S1PR1 and CCR7, and their master regulator KLF-2, and reduced chemotaxis toward S1P and CCL21. Consistent with the in vitro data, in vivo AQP4 inhibition reduced T lymphocyte numbers in the lymph nodes with simultaneous accumulation in the liver. Our findings indicate that blocking AQP4 reversibly alters T lymphocyte trafficking pattern. This information can be explored for the treatment of undesirable immune responses in transplant recipients or in patients with autoimmune diseases.	Lymphoablation is routinely used in transplantation, and its success is defined by the balance of pathogenic versus protective T cells within reconstituted repertoire. While homeostatic proliferation and thymopoiesis may both cause T cell recovery during lymphopenia, the relative contributions of these mechanisms remain unclear. The goal of this study was to investigate the role of the thymus during T cell reconstitution in adult allograft recipients subjected to lymphoablative induction therapy. Compared with euthymic mice, thymectomized heart allograft recipients demonstrated severely impaired CD4 and CD8 T cell recovery and prolonged heart allograft survival after lymphoablation with murine anti-thymocyte globulin (mATG). The injection with agonistic anti-CD40 mAb or thymus transplantation only partially restored T cell reconstitution in mATG-treated thymectomized mice. After mATG depletion, residual CD4 T cells migrated into the thymus and enhanced thymopoiesis. Conversely, depletion of CD4 T cells before lymphoablation inhibited thymopoiesis at the stage of CD4<sup>-</sup> CD8<sup>-</sup> CD44<sup>hi</sup> CD25<sup>+</sup> immature thymocytes. This is the first demonstration that the thymus and peripheral CD4 T cells cooperate to ensure optimal T cell reconstitution after lymphoablation. Targeting thymopoiesis through manipulating functions of depletion-resistant helper T cells may thus improve therapeutic benefits and minimize the risks of lymphoablation in clinical settings.	Prolonged cold ischemia storage (CIS) is a leading risk factor for poor transplant outcome. Existing strategies strive to minimize ischemia-reperfusion injury in transplanted organs, yet there is a need for novel approaches to improve outcomes of marginal allografts and expand the pool of donor organs suitable for transplantation. Aquaporins (AQPs) are a family of water channels that facilitate homeostasis, tissue injury, and inflammation. We tested whether inhibition of AQP4 improves the survival of fully MHC-mismatched murine cardiac allografts subjected to 8 hours of CIS. Administration of a small molecule AQP4 inhibitor during donor heart collection and storage and for a short-time posttransplantation improves the viability of donor graft cells, diminishes donor-reactive T cell responses, and extends allograft survival in the absence of other immunosuppression. Furthermore, AQP4 inhibition is synergistic with cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen 4-Ig in prolonging survival of 8-hour CIS heart allografts. AQP4 blockade markedly reduced T cell proliferation and cytokine production in vitro, suggesting that the improved graft survival is at least in part mediated through direct effects on donor-reactive T cells. These results identify AQPs as a promising target for diminishing donor-specific alloreactivity and improving the survival of high-risk organ transplants.	Memory T cells are characterized by their low activation threshold, robust effector functions, and resistance to conventional immunosuppression and costimulation blockade. Unlike their naïve counterparts, memory T cells reside in and recirculate through peripheral non-lymphoid tissues. Alloreactive memory T cells are subdivided into different categories based on their origins, phenotypes, and functions. Recipients whose immune systems have been directly exposed to allogeneic major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules display high affinity alloreactive memory T cells. In the absence of any prior exposure to allogeneic MHC molecules, endogenous alloreactive memory T cells are regularly generated through microbial infections (heterologous immunity). Regardless of their origin, alloreactive memory T cells represent an essential element of the allograft rejection process and a major barrier to tolerance induction in clinical transplantation. This article describes the different subsets of alloreactive memory T cells involved in transplant rejection and examine their generation, functional properties, and mechanisms of action. In addition, we discuss strategies developed to target deleterious allospecific memory T cells in experimental animal models and clinical settings.	Despite recent advances in immunosuppression, donor-reactive memory T cells remain a serious threat to successful organ transplantation. To alleviate damaging effects of preexisting immunologic memory, lymphoablative induction therapies are used as part of standard care in sensitized recipients. However, accumulating evidence suggests that memory T cells have advantages over their naive counterparts in surviving depletion and expanding under lymphopenic conditions. This may at least partially explain the inability of existing lymphoablative strategies to improve long-term allograft outcome in sensitized recipients, despite the well-documented decrease in the frequency of early acute rejection episodes. This minireview summarizes the insights gained from both experimental and clinical transplantation as to the effects of existing lymphoablative strategies on memory T cells and discusses the latest research developments aimed at improving the efficacy and safety of lymphoablation.	Despite advances in immunosuppression, antibody-mediated rejection is a serious threat to allograft survival. Alloreactive memory helper T cells can induce potent alloantibody responses and often associate with poor graft outcome. Nevertheless, the ability of memory T cells to elicit well characterized manifestations of antibody-mediated rejection has not been tested. We investigated helper functions of memory CD4 T cells in a mouse model of renal transplantation. Whereas the majority of unsensitized C57Bl/6 recipients spontaneously accepted fully MHC-mismatched A/J renal allografts, recipients containing donor-reactive memory CD4 T cells rapidly lost allograft function. Increased serum creatinine levels, high serum titers of donor-specific alloantibody, minimal T cell infiltration, and intense C4d deposition in the grafts of sensitized recipients fulfilled all diagnostic criteria for acute renal antibody-mediated rejection in humans. IFNγ neutralization did not prevent the renal allograft rejection induced by memory helper T cells, and CD8 T cell depletion at the time of transplantation or depletion of both CD4 and CD8 T cells also did not prevent the renal allograft rejection induced by memory helper T cells starting at day 4 after transplantation. However, B cell depletion inhibited alloantibody generation and significantly extended allograft survival, indicating that donor-specific alloantibodies (not T cells) were the critical effector mechanism of renal allograft rejection induced by memory CD4 T cells. Our studies provide direct evidence that recipient T cell sensitization may result in antibody-mediated rejection of renal allografts and introduce a physiologically relevant animal model with which to investigate mechanisms of antibody-mediated rejection and novel therapeutic approaches for its prevention and treatment.	Ab-mediated lymphoablation is commonly used in solid organ and hematopoietic cell transplantation. However, these strategies fail to control pathogenic memory T cells efficiently and to improve long-term transplant outcomes significantly. Understanding the mechanisms of T cell reconstitution is critical for enhancing the efficacy of Ab-mediated depletion in sensitized recipients. Using a murine analog of anti-thymocyte globulin (mATG) in a mouse model of cardiac transplantation, we previously showed that peritransplant lymphocyte depletion induces rapid memory T cell proliferation and only modestly prolongs allograft survival. We now report that T cell repertoire following depletion is dominated by memory CD4 T cells. Additional depletion of these residual CD4 T cells severely impairs the recovery of memory CD8 T cells after mATG treatment. The CD4 T cell help during CD8 T cell recovery depends on the presence of B cells expressing CD40 and intact CD40/CD154 interactions. The requirement for CD4 T cell help is not limited to the use of mATG in heart allograft recipients, and it is observed in nontransplanted mice and after CD8 T cell depletion with mAb instead of mATG. Most importantly, limiting helper signals increases the efficacy of mATG in controlling memory T cell expansion and significantly extends heart allograft survival in sensitized recipients. Our findings uncover the novel role for helper memory CD4 T cells during homeostatic CD8 T cell proliferation and open new avenues for optimizing lymphoablative therapies in allosensitized patients. 	The analyses of indirect T-cell responses in patients with antibody-mediated renal transplant injury by Shiu et al. emphasize the complex contribution of B cells in alloimmunity. The data suggest at least three distinct but potentially overlapping consequences of T cell-B cell interactions: antigen presentation by B cells, alloantibody production, and immune regulation. These multifaceted functions of B cells should be taken into consideration in developing diagnostic tools and therapeutic strategies. 	Cognate T-B cell interactions and CD40-CD154 costimulation are essential for productive humoral immunity against T-dependent Ags. We reported that memory CD4 T cells can deliver help to B cells and induce pathogenic IgG alloantibodies in the absence of CD40-CD154 interactions. To determine cytokine requirements for CD40-independent help, we used CD40(-/-) mice containing differentiated subsets of donor-reactive memory Th cells as heart allograft recipients. Th1 and Th17, but not Th2, memory CD4 T cells elicited high titers of anti-donor Ab. Abs induced by Th17 memory CD4 T cells had decreased reactivity against donor MHC class I molecules and inferior ability to cause complement deposition in heart allografts compared with Abs induced by Th1 cells, suggesting a requirement for IFN-γ during CD40-independent help. IFN-γ neutralization inhibited helper functions of memory CD4 T cells in both CD40(-/-) recipients and wild type recipients treated with anti-CD154 mAb. Our results suggest that IFN-γ secreted by pre-existing memory helper cells determines both isotype and specificity of donor-reactive alloantibodies and can thus affect allograft pathology. This information may be valuable for identifying transplant patients at risk for de novo development of pathogenic alloantibodies and for preventing alloantibody production in T cell-sensitized recipients. 	Donor-reactive memory T cells undermine organ transplant survival and are poorly controlled by immunosuppression or costimulatory blockade. Memory CD4 T cells provide CD40-independent help for the generation of donor-reactive effector CD8 T cells and alloantibodies (alloAbs) that rapidly mediate allograft rejection. The goal of this study was to investigate the role of B cell activating factor (BAFF) and a proliferation-inducing ligand (APRIL) in alloresponses driven by memory CD4 T cells. The short-term neutralization of BAFF alone or BAFF plus APRIL synergized with anti-CD154 mAb to prolong heart allograft survival in recipients containing donor-reactive memory CD4 T cells. The prolongation was associated with reduction in antidonor alloAb responses and with inhibited reactivation and helper functions of memory CD4 T cells. Additional depletion of CD8 T cells did not enhance the prolonged allograft survival suggesting that donor-reactive alloAbs mediate late graft rejection in these recipients. This is the first report that targeting the BAFF cytokine network inhibits both humoral and cellular immune responses induced by memory CD4 T cells. Our results suggest that reagents neutralizing BAFF and APRIL may be used to enhance the efficacy of CD40/CD154 costimulatory blockade and improve allograft survival in T cell-sensitized recipients.
Van Wagoner, David	Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences	30513109	28344424	26335221	25213716	21123218	20495015	18791466	17403452	12914605	12875431	Endothelin-1 (ET-1) is a potent vasoconstrictor, mitogen and inflammatory factor that may contribute to development of atrial fibrillation (AF). Plasma ET-1 levels are increased in hyperthyroid patients, but studies evaluating its relation to AF development in hyperthyroid patients are lacking. The present study seeks to evaluate the relation of plasma ET-1 to AF development as a function of thyroid status. Blood samples from euthyroid patients (n = 41), hypothyroid (n = 61), hyperthyroid (n = 41), AF with hyperthyroidism (n = 9), and euthyroid AF (n = 10) patients were collected. Plasma ET-1, CRP, and thyroid hormone levels were measured and compared between groups. Plasma ET-1 levels were higher in hyperthyroid and euthyroid AF patients&gt; hyperthyroid-non-AF &gt; hypo and euthyroid non-AF patients. Plasma ET-1 levels positively correlated with free T3 and T4 levels, and negatively with TSH levels. By multivariate analysis, plasma ET-1 was positively associated with AF, hyperthyroidism, and age. Plasma CRP did not vary by study group in either univariate or multivariate analyses. Plasma ET-1 is associated with AF, elevated in hyperthyroid patients and positively correlated with thyroid hormone levels, suggesting that hyperthyroidism may increase ET-1 expression and release. This study may guide development of novel predictors of AF associated with hyperthyroidism, and may help to personalize therapy in hyperthyroid patients.	To investigate the left atrial (LA) size as an independent predictor of mortality following coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG). This single center study evaluated determinants of mortality in 1070 patients who underwent isolated CABG from 2005-2014. Clinical, laboratory and demographic data were obtained from medical records. Collinearity between enlarged LA size (diameter ≥ 4 cm) and covariates was identified. The adjusted effects of enlarged LA size on 30-day mortality post CABG were tested using multiple logistic regression models. Adjusted odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) were reported. The mean age was 59 ± 9.8 years, and 238 patients were female. Two multivariate logistic regression models were evaluated. In Model A, mitral regurgitation (MR), ejection fraction, intensive care unit length-of-stay and variables found to be collinear with LA size as predictors of mortality were excluded. In model B, the collinear variables were included. By multivariate analysis (Model A), the statistically significant independent predictors of 30-day mortality after CABG were: enlarged LA size (OR 4.82, 95% CI 2.16-10.79), emergency CABG (OR 3.54, 95% CI 1.75-7.18), prolonged inotropic support (OR 2.79, 95% CI 1.38-5.6), diuretic use ≥ 1 month (OR 1.29, 95% CI 1.3-8.42), and use of clopidogrel within a week before surgery (OR 3.27, 95% CI 1.28-8.36. In Model B, enlarged LA and moderate MR were identified as independent predictors of 30-day mortality. Increased LA size is a strong independent predictor of mortality after isolated CABG.	Atrial fibrillation (AF) is an important cause of stroke and risk factor for heart failure and death. Current pharmacologic treatments for AF have limited efficacy, and treatments that more directly target the underlying causes of AF are needed. Oxidant stress and inflammatory activation are interrelated pathways that promote atrial electrical and structural remodeling, leading to atrial ectopy, interstitial fibrosis, and increased stroke risk. This review evaluates the impact of common stressors on atrial oxidant stress and inflammatory activation and the contribution of these pathways to atrial remodeling. Recent studies suggest that integrated efforts to target the underlying risk factors, rather than the AF per se, may have a greater impact on health and outcomes than isolated efforts focused on the electrical abnormalities. 	Coronary artery disease (CAD) is responsible for significant morbidity and mortality. Inflammatory, pro-thrombotic and structural factors contribute to the etiology of CAD. This study sought to determine the relationship of plasma endothelin-1 (pET-1), a potent vasoconstrictor, mitogen and modulator of cardiac inflammation, to clinical characteristics and outcomes of CAD patients. Blood samples were collected from 336 patients with underlying chest pain or recent myocardial infarction (MI), prior to coronary catheterization. pET-1 was correlated with clinical characteristics and outcomes following catheterization and at 30-day follow-up. pET-1 was higher in recent MI patients than in patients with CAD (coronary occlusion≥50%) or without CAD (&lt;50%) (Mean±sem (pg/ml): 2.12±0.13, 1.51±0.10, 1.21±0.06; 95% confidence interval (1.85-2.38, 1.31-1.72, 1.07-1.32; respectively, P&lt;.0001). Patients with ST elevation MI (STEMI) had higher pET-1 than non-STEMI (P=.008). pET-1 was associated with heart failure (HF) and low left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) and was highest in MI patients presented with acute HF. At 30-day follow up, pET-1 was not associated with the change in LVEF. In multivariate analysis, pET-1 was positively associated with age, smoking, HF, CAD status, and need for revascularization by coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG). pET-1 was negatively correlated with LVEF and preoperative statin use. pET-1 is associated with recent MI, HF, age, smoking, CABG, and low LVEF. Preoperative statin use was associated with lower pET-1. pET-1 may serve as a risk marker and a potential therapeutic target in CAD patients.	Pre-treatment with dietary ω3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (ω3-PUFA) has been reported to reduce the incidence of new-onset atrial fibrillation (AF) following cardiac surgery. In a canine cardiac surgery model, we evaluated the impact of dietary ω3-PUFA on atrial electrophysiological properties, inflammatory markers, the atrial endothelin-1 (ET-1) system, and the expression and distribution of connexin 43. Adult mongrel dogs received either normal chow (NC, n = 11) or chow supplemented with fish oil (FO, 0.6 g ω3-PUFA/kg/day, n = 9) for 3 weeks before surgery. A left thoracotomy was performed, and the left atrial appendage (LAA) was excised. Atrial pacing/recording wires were placed, and the pericardium/chest was closed. The atrial ratio of ω6/ω3 lipids decreased from 15-20 in NC to 2-3 in FO. FO treatment lowered pre-surgical and stabilized post-surgical arachidonate levels. Peak neutrophil to lymphocyte ratio was lower and decayed faster in FO-treated animals. Extensive inflammatory cell infiltration was present in NC atria, but was reduced in FO-treated dogs. FO-treated animals had lower post-surgical atrial expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and reduced plasma ET-1. Expression of ET-1 and inositol trisphosphate receptor type-2 proteins in the LAA was also reduced. FO treatment prolonged post-operative atrial effective refractory period, slowed heart rate, and enhanced heart rate variability. Importantly, AF (&gt;30 s) was inducible in four of six NC dogs, but no FO dogs. Dietary FO attenuated AF inducibility following cardiac surgery by modulating autonomic tone and heart rate. FO also reduced atrial inflammation, iNOS, and ET-1 expression.	Atrial fibrillation (AF) promotes atrial remodeling and can develop secondary to heart failure or mitral valve disease. Cardiac endothelin-1 (ET-1) expression responds to wall stress and can promote myocyte hypertrophy and interstitial fibrosis. We tested the hypothesis that atrial ET-1 is elevated in AF and is associated with AF persistence. Left atrial appendage tissue was studied from coronary artery bypass graft, valve repair, and/or Maze procedure in patients in sinus rhythm with no history of AF (SR, n=21), with history of AF but in SR at surgery (AF/SR, n=23), and in AF at surgery (AF/AF, n=32). The correlation of LA size with atrial protein and mRNA expression of ET-1 and ET-1 receptors (ETAR and ETBR) was evaluated. LA appendage ET-1 content was higher in AF/AF than in SR, but receptor levels were similar. Immunostaining revealed that ET-1 and its receptors were present both in atrial myocytes and in fibroblasts. ET-1 content was positively correlated with LA size, heart failure, AF persistence, and severity of mitral regurgitation. Multivariate analysis confirmed associations of ET-1 with AF, hypertension, and LA size. LA size was associated with ET-1 and MR severity. ET-1 mRNA levels were correlated with genes involved in cardiac dilatation, hypertrophy, and fibrosis. Elevated atrial ET-1 content is associated with increased LA size, AF rhythm, hypertension, and heart failure. ET-1 is associated with atrial dilatation, fibrosis, and hypertrophy and probably contributes to AF persistence. Interventions that reduce atrial ET-1 expression and/or block its receptors may slow AF progression.	Atrial fibrillation (AF) is one of the most prevalent and vexing cardiovascular conditions. Available treatments for AF based on ion channel blockade are only poorly effective. The fundamental mechanisms that underlie AF are still not clearly understood, and likely vary depending on the etiology of AF. In older individuals with senile AF, likely mechanisms include abnormal calcium cycling, oxidant stress, and deleterious inflammatory responses. Clinical and experimental evidence is provided to support the role of oxidant and inflammatory mechanisms in AF. On the basis of these studies, the prospects of manipulating oxidant and inflammatory pathways as targets for therapeutic intervention are discussed.	Although the problem of atrial fibrillation is now widely appreciated, the fundamental mechanisms that lead to arrhythmia onset and persistence have been difficult to elucidate. As a result, available pharmacologic therapies have focused more on modifying ion channel activity than on the underlying mechanisms. Recent studies suggest an important role for alterations in autonomic regulation, neurohormonal activation, and a systemic inflammatory state in the genesis and persistence of atrial fibrillation. The relative contributions of these distinct pathways to atrial fibrillation likely vary from patient to patient, and within a patient, as a function of age. Tailored therapies, together with patient-specific ablative interventions, may increase the success with which atrial fibrillation is treated and minimize the occurrence of life-threatening thromboembolic complications.	Atrial fibrillation (AF) is a progressive disease characterized by cumulative electrophysiological and structural remodeling of the atria. Cellular electrophysiological studies have revealed marked reductions in the densities of the L-type voltage-gated Ca2+ current, ICa,L, the transient outward K+ current, ITO, and the ultra-rapid delayed rectifier K+ current, IKur, in atrial myocytes from patients in persistent or permanent AF. The density of the muscarinic K+ current (IKACh) is also reduced, however the inward rectifier K+ current (IK1) density is increased. The net shortening or lengthening of the action potential is dependent on the balance between changes in inward and outward currents. The prominent reduction in ICa,L appears to be sufficient to explain the observed decreases in action potential duration and effective refractory period that are characteristic of the fibrillating atria. Earlier studies have shown that calcium overload and perturbations in calcium handling play prominent roles in AF induced atrial remodeling. More recently, we have shown that AF is associated with evidence of oxidative injury to atrial tissue, and suggested that oxidative stress may directly contribute to the pathophysiology of AF. It is anticipated that insights gleaned from mechanistic studies will facilitate the development of improved pharmacological approaches to treat AF and to prevent the progression of arrhythmia.	AF is a difficult disease to treat because of the numerous (ischemic, metabolic, inflammatory, structural) mechanisms contributing to its etiology. AF persistence requires both an adequate tissue substrate for reentrant activity and triggers to initiate the arrhythmia. In a few interesting instances, AF may have a monogenic cause. Although there are common electrophysiologic characteristics of myocytes from a variety of AF models and clinical presentations, it is unrealistic to expect that all patients will respond equally to the same interventions. Thus, patients with AF of an inflammatory etiology may respond better to anti-inflammatory therapies, whereas those with enlarged atria secondary to valvular disease may require surgery. Some may respond better to ablation than others. However, the heterogeneity of the substrate does not negate the value of searching for the underlying molecular mechanisms. As we begin to comprehend these mechanisms in greater detail, the dream of using individualized rational therapies will come closer to reality.
Vince, Geoff	Biomedical Engineering	15923746	15331362	15185177	15121252	12766735	12661205	12453506	12390948	11731045	11131497	Coronary artery disease is the number one cause of death in the United States and the Western world, and approximately 250,000 affected people die per year without ever being admitted to a hospital. One of the main reasons of such a high death-rate without any diagnosis is that more than 50 or heart-attacks) occur in patients with no prior history of known heart disease or symptoms. Coronary artery disease leads to the occlusion of arteries that are vital in providing nutrients to the heart muscles. The disease develops by progressive accumulation or formation of &quot;plaque&quot; within an artery. Certain types of plaques could occlude blood flow and yet might be &quot;stable&quot;. These plaques usually have a high fibrous content, and are known as hard plaques. On the other hand, &quot;unstable&quot; or &quot;soft&quot; plaques might not cause much occlusion but could be vulnerable to rupture. Rupture of such plaques could lead to total or partial occlusion in arteries resulting in sudden cardiac death or heart-attack. In fact, 68 coronary arteries are less than 50.Intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) is a minimally invasive imaging modality that provides cross-section images of arteries in real-time, allowing visualization of atherosclerotic plaques in vivo. In standard IVUS gray-scale images, calcified regions of plaque and dense fibrous components generally reflect ultrasound energy well and thus appear bright and homogeneous on IVUS images. Conversely, regions of low echo reflectance in IVUS images are usually labeled &quot;soft&quot; or &quot;mixed&quot; plaque. However, this visual interpretation has been demonstrated to be very inconsistent in accurately determining plaque composition and does not allow real-time assessment of quantitative plaque constituents.Spectral analysis of the backscattered radiofrequency (RF) ultrasound signals allows detailed assessment of plaque composition. Advanced mathematical techniques can be employed to extract spectral information from these RF data to determine composition. The spectral content or signature of RF data reflected from tissue depends on density, compressibility, concentration, size, etc. A combination of spectral parameters were used to develop statistical classification schemes for analysis of in vivo IVUS data in real-time. The clinical data acquisition system is ECG gated and the analysis software developed by our group reconstructs IVUS gray-scale images from the acquired RF data. A combination of spectral parameters and active contour models is used for real-time 3D plaque segmentation followed by computation of color-coded tissue maps for each image cross-section and longitudinal views of the entire vessel. The &quot;fly-through&quot; mode allows one to visualize the complete length of the artery internally with the histology components at the lumen surface. In addition, vessel and plaque metrics such as areas and volumes of individual plaque components (collagen, fibro-lipid, calcium, lipid-core) are also available.	Despite their advantages, percutaneous coronary interventional procedures are less effective in diabetic patients. Changes in the mechanical properties of vascular walls secondary to long-term hyperglycemia as well as other factors such as age may influence coronary distensibility. This investigation is aimed at deciphering the extent of these effects on distensibility of postmortem human coronary arteries in a controlled manner. Excised human left anterior descending (LAD) coronary arteries were obtained within 24 h postmortem. With the use of intravascular ultrasound, vascular deformation was analyzed at midregions of 51 moderate lesions. Intraluminal pressure was systematically altered using a computerized pressure pump system and monitored by a pressure-sensing guidewire. Distensibility, a normalized compliance term, was defined as the change in lumen area normalized by the initial reference area over a given pressure interval. With the use of multivariate analysis and repeated-measures ANOVA, coronary distensibility was independently influenced by hyperglycemia and age (P &lt; 0.05) through the entire pressure range. Within physiological pressure range, distensibility was significantly reduced with age in nonhyperglycemic coronary specimens (10.55 +/- 4.41 vs. 6.99 +/- 2.45, x10(3) kPa(-1), P = 0.01), whereas the hyperglycemic vessels were stiff even in the younger group (7.90 +/- 5.82 vs. 7.20 +/- 3.36, x10(3) kPa(-1), P = 0.79). Similar results were observed with stiffness index and elastic modulus of the arteries. Hyperglycemia and age independently influenced the distensibility of moderately atherosclerotic LAD coronary arteries. The stiffening with age was overshadowed in the hyperglycemic group by as-yet-undetermined factors.	Intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) provides direct depiction of coronary artery anatomy. Traditional use of this tomographic imaging modality has been in determination of geometric measurements of an artery, such as lumen or plaque size. However, by analyzing the backscattered or radiofrequency (RF) data it is possible to glean information on the composition of plaques. This chapter describes the theory of spectral analysis and its application clinical practice.	In medical diagnostic ultrasound (US), higher than-in-water nonlinearity of body fluids and tissue usually does not produce strong nonlinearly distorted waves because of the high absorption. The relative influence of absorption and nonlinearity can be characterized by the Gol'dberg number Gamma. There are two limiting cases in nonlinear acoustics: weak waves (Gamma &lt; 1) or strong waves (Gamma &gt; 1). However, at diagnostic frequencies in tissue and body fluids, the nonlinear effects and effects of absorption more likely are comparable (Gol'dberg number Gamma approximately 1). The aim of this work was to study the nonlinear propagation of a moderately nonlinear US second harmonic signal in a blood-mimicking fluid. Quasilinear solutions to the KZK equation are presented, assuming radiation from a flat and geometrically focused circular Gaussian source. The solutions are expressed in a new simplified closed form and are in very good agreement with those of previous studies measuring and modeling Gaussian beams. The solutions also show good agreement with the measurements of the beams produced by commercially available transducers, even without special Gaussian shading.	Angiography allows the definition of advanced, severe stages of coronary artery disease, but early atherosclerotic lesions, which do not lead to luminal stenosis, are not identified reliably. In contrast, intravascular ultrasound scanning allows the precise characterization and quantification of a wide range of atherosclerotic lesions, independent of the severity of luminal stenosis. Three-dimensional (3-D) reconstruction of entire coronary segments is possible with the integration of sequential 2-dimensional tomographic images and allows volumetric analysis of coronary arteries. Automated systems able to recognize lumen and vessel borders and to display 3-D images are becoming available. These systems have the potential for on-line 3-D image reconstruction for clinical decision-making and fast routine volumetric analysis in research studies. This review describes 3-D intravascular ultrasound scanning acquisition, analysis, and processing, and the associated technical challenges.	Most arterial mechanics studies have focused on excised non-coronary vessels, with few studies validating the application of ex-vivo results to in-vivo conditions. A method was developed for testing the mechanical properties of intact left anterior descending coronary arteries under a variety of conditions. Vascular deformation and pressure were simultaneously measured with intravascular ultrasound and a pressure transducer guidewire, respectively. Results suggest the importance of understanding in-vivo factors such as myocardial support, vascular tone and local pressure fluctuations when applying ex-vivo coronary characterization data. With further development, this method can more accurately characterize the true in-vivo constitutive behavior in normal and atherosclerotic coronaries.	Intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) provides direct depiction of coronary anatomy, including the degree and extent of coronary plaque, useful in quantitative research or clinical studies. These studies require fast and accurate analysis of coronary morphometry in volumetric IVUS images. Semi-automated interaction techniques are important for this task due to limitations of automated processing. We present B-spline-based surface fitting and manipulation methods that provide a foundation for such interaction techniques. They can be integrated easily with previously developed segmentation algorithms to provide a semi-automated segmentation system for identification of luminal and vessel borders in volumetric IVUS images.	Atherosclerotic plaque stability is related to histological composition. However, current diagnostic tools do not allow adequate in vivo identification and characterization of plaques. Spectral analysis of backscattered intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) data has potential for real-time in vivo plaque classification. Eighty-eight plaques from 51 left anterior descending coronary arteries were imaged ex vivo at physiological pressure with the use of 30-MHz IVUS transducers. After IVUS imaging, the arteries were pressure-fixed and corresponding histology was collected in matched images. Regions of interest, selected from histology, were 101 fibrous, 56 fibrolipidic, 50 calcified, and 70 calcified-necrotic regions. Classification schemes for model building were computed for autoregressive and classic Fourier spectra by using 75% of the data. The remaining data were used for validation. Autoregressive classification schemes performed better than those from classic Fourier spectra with accuracies of 90.4% for fibrous, 92.8% for fibrolipidic, 90.9% for calcified, and 89.5% for calcified-necrotic regions in the training data set and 79.7%, 81.2%, 92.8%, and 85.5% in the test data, respectively. Tissue maps were reconstructed with the use of accurate predictions of plaque composition from the autoregressive classification scheme. Coronary plaque composition can be predicted through the use of IVUS radiofrequency data analysis. Autoregressive classification schemes performed better than classic Fourier methods. These techniques allow real-time analysis of IVUS data, enabling in vivo plaque characterization.	Spectral analysis of backscattered intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) data has demonstrated the ability to characterize plaque. We compared the ability of spectral parameters (e.g., slope, midband fit and y-intercept), computed via classic Fourier transform (CPSD), Welch power spectrum (WPSD) and autoregressive (MPSD) models, to classify plaque composition. Data were collected ex vivo from 32 human left anterior descending coronary arteries. Regions-of-interest (ROIs), selected from histology, comprised 64 collagen-rich, 24 fibrolipidic, 23 calcified and 37 calcified-necrotic regions. A novel quantitative method was used to correlate IVUS data with corresponding histologic sections. Periodograms of IVUS samples, identified for each ROI, were used to calculate spectral parameters. Statistical classification trees (CT) were computed with 75% of the data for plaque characterization. The remaining data were used to assess the accuracy of the CTs. The overall accuracies for normalized spectra with CPSD, WPSD and MPSD were, respectively, 84.7%, 85.6% and 81.1% (training data) and 54.1%, 64.9% and 37.8% (test data). These numbers were improved to 89.2%, 91.9% and 89.2% (training) and 62.2%, 73% and 59.5% (test) when the calcified and calcified-necrotic regions were combined for analysis. Most CTs misclassified a few fibrolipidic regions as collagen, which is histologically acceptable, and the unnormalized and normalized spectra results were similar.	Intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) provides direct depiction of coronary artery anatomy, including plaque and vessel area, which is important in quantitative studies on the progression or regression of coronary artery disease. Traditionally, these studies have relied on manual evaluation, which is laborious, time consuming, and subject to large interobserver and intraobserver variability. A new technique, called active surface segmentation, alleviates these limitations and makes strides toward routine analyses. However, for three-dimensional (3-D) plaque assessment or 3-D reconstruction to become a clinical reality, methods must be developed which can analyze many images quickly. Presented is a comparison between two active surface techniques for three-dimensional segmentation of luminal and medial-adventitial borders. The force-acceleration technique and the neighborhood-search technique accurately detected both borders in vivo (r2 = 0.95 and 0.99, Williams' index = 0.67 and 0.65, and r2 = 0.95 and 0.99, WI = 0.67 and 0.70, respectively). However, the neighborhood-search technique was significantly faster and required less computation. Volume calculations for both techniques (r2 = 0.99 and r2 = 0.99) also agreed with a known-volume phantom. Active surface segmentation allows 3-D assessment of coronary morphology and further developments with this technology will provide clinical analysis tools.
Wang, Qing	Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences	30703554	30655286	30772377	31020414	30991833	30920082	30821358	30282806	30251687	30188605	Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a life-threatening disease without effective therapies. PAH is associated with a progressive increase in pulmonary vascular resistance and irreversible pulmonary vascular remodeling. SUMO1 (small ubiquitin-related modifier 1) can bind to target proteins and lead to protein SUMOylation, an important post-translational modification with a key role in many diseases. However, the contribution of SUMO1 to PAH remains to be fully characterized. In this study, we explored the role of SUMO1 in the dedifferentiation of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) involved in hypoxia-induced pulmonary vascular remodeling and PAH in vivo and in vitro. In a mouse model of hypoxic PAH, SUMO1 expression was significantly increased, which was associated with activation of autophagy (increased LC3b and decreased p62), dedifferentiation of pulmonary arterial VSMCs (reduced α-SMA, SM22 and SM-MHC), and pulmonary vascular remodeling. Similar results were obtained in a MCT-induced PAH model. Overexpression of SUMO1 significantly increased VSMCs proliferation, migration, hypoxia-induced VSMCs dedifferentiation, and autophagy, but these effects were abolished by inhibition of autophagy by 3-MA in aortic VSMCs. Furthermore, SUMO1 knockdown reversed hypoxia-induced proliferation and migration of PASMCs. Mechanistically, SUMO1 promotes Vps34 SUMOylation and the assembly of the Beclin-1-Vps34-Atg14 complex, thereby inducing autophagy, whereas Vps34 mutation K840R reduces Vps34 SUMOylation and inhibits VSMCs dedifferentiation. Our data uncovers an important role of SUMO1 in VSMCs proliferation, migration, autophagy, and phenotypic switching (dedifferentiation) involved in pulmonary vascular remodeling and PAH. Targeting of the SUMO1-Vps34-autophagy signaling axis may be exploited to develop therapeutic strategies to treat PAH.	Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the leading cause of death worldwide. Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) are a class of noncoding transcripts of &gt; 200 nucleotides and are increasingly recognized as playing functional roles in physiology and disease. ANRIL is an lncRNA gene mapped to the chromosome 9p21 genetic locus for CAD identified by the first series of genome-wide association studies (GWAS). However, ANRIL's role in CAD and the underlying molecular mechanism are unknown. Here, we show that the major ANRIL transcript in endothelial cells (ECs) is DQ485454 with a much higher expression level in ECs than in THP-1 monocytes. Of note, DQ485454 expression was down-regulated in CAD coronary arteries compared with non-CAD arteries. DQ485454 overexpression significantly reduced monocyte adhesion to ECs, transendothelial monocyte migration (TEM), and EC migration, which are critical cellular processes involved in CAD initiation, whereas siRNA-mediated ANRIL knockdown (KD) had the opposite effect. Microarray and follow-up quantitative RT-PCR analyses revealed that the ANRIL KD down-regulated expression of AHNAK2, CLIP1, CXCL11, ENC1, EZR, LYVE1, WASL, and TNFSF10 genes and up-regulated TMEM100 and TMEM106B genes. Mechanistic studies disclosed that overexpression of CLIP1, EZR, and LYVE1 reversed the effects of ANRIL KD on monocyte adhesion to ECs, TEM, and EC migration. These findings indicate that ANRIL regulates EC functions directly related to CAD, supporting the hypothesis that ANRIL is involved in CAD pathogenesis at the 9p21 genetic locus and identifying a molecular mechanism underlying lncRNA-mediated regulation of EC function and CAD development.	Voltage-gated sodium channel Nav1.5 is critical for generation and conduction of cardiac action potentials. Mutations and expression level changes of Nav1.5 are associated with cardiac arrhythmias and sudden death. The ubiquitin (Ub) conjugation machinery utilizes three enzyme activities, E1, E2, and E3, to regulate protein degradation. Previous studies from us and others showed that Nedd4-2 acts as an E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase involved in ubiquitination and degradation of Nav1.5, however, more key regulators remain to be identified. In this study, we show that UBC9, a SUMO-conjugating enzyme, regulates ubiquitination and degradation of Nav1.5. Overexpression of UBC9 significantly decreased Nav1.5 expression and reduced sodium current densities, whereas knockdown of UBC9 expression significantly enhanced Nav1.5 expression and increased sodium current densities, in both HEK293 cells and primary neonatal cardiomyocytes. Overexpression of UBC9 increased ubiquitination of Nav1.5, and proteasome inhibitor MG132 blocked the effect of UBC9 overexpression on Nav1.5 degradation. Co-immunoprecipitation showed that UBC9 interacts with Nedd4-2. UBC9 with mutation C93S, which suppresses SUMO-conjugating activity of UBC9, was as active as wild type UBC9 in regulating Nav1.5 levels, suggesting that UBC9 regulates Nav1.5 expression levels in a SUMOylation-independent manner. Our findings thus identify a key structural element of the ubiquitin-conjugation machinery for Nav1.5 and provide important insights into the regulatory mechanism for ubiquitination and turnover of Nav1.5.	Ventricular tachycardia (VT) causes sudden cardiac death, however, the majority of risk genes for VT remain unknown. SCN4B encodes a β-subunit, Navβ4, for the voltage-gated cardiac sodium channel complex involved in generation and conduction of the cardiac action potential. We hypothesized that genomic variants in SCN4B increase the risk of VT. We used high-resolution melt analysis followed by Sanger sequencing to screen 199 VT patients to identify nonsynonymous variants in SCN4B. Two nonsynonymous heterozygous variants in SCN4B were identified in VT patients, including p.Gly8Ser in four VT patients and p.Ala145Ser in one VT patient. Case-control association studies were used to assess the association between variant p.Gly8Ser and VT in two independent populations for VT (299 VT cases vs. 981 controls in population 1 and 270 VT patients vs. 639 controls in population 2). Significant association was identified between p.Gly8Ser and VT in population 1 (P = 1.21 × 10<sup>-4</sup>, odds ratio or OR = 11.04), and the finding was confirmed in population 2 (P = 0.03, OR = 3.62). The association remained highly significant in the combined population (P = 3.09 × 10<sup>-5</sup>, OR = 6.17). Significant association was also identified between p.Gly8Ser and idiopathic VT (P = 1.89 × 10<sup>-5</sup>, OR = 7.27). Functional analysis with Western blotting showed that both p.Gly8Ser and p.Ala145Ser variants significantly reduced the expression level of Navβ4. Based on 2015 ACMG Standards and Guidelines, p.Gly8Ser and p.Ala145Ser can be classified as the pathogenic and likely pathogenic variant, respectively. Our data suggest that SCN4B is a susceptibility gene for common VT and idiopathic VT and link rare SCN4B variants with large effects (OR = 6.17-7.27) to common VT.	Vascular hyperpermeability caused by distorted endothelial cell-cell junctions is associated with the no-reflow phenomenon after opening of the occluded vessels in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD), the leading cause of death worldwide. Coronary no-reflow is observed in ∼30% of CAD patients after percutaneous coronary stenting and is associated with a worse prognosis at follow-up and a higher incidence of death. However, limited tools are available to control vascular hyperpermeability and no-reflow. Losartan, an angiotensin II (Ang II) receptor blocker acting on the Ang II type-1 receptor (AT1R) subtype, is a prescription drug for treating hypertension. Here we show that in a murine model of ischemia and reperfusion (I/R), losartan blocked vascular hyperpermeability and decreased infarct size, hemorrhages, edema, and inflammation. Mechanistically, losartan-mediated inhibition of vascular hyperpermeability is mediated by the inhibition of phosphorylation of Src and vascular endothelial cadherin (VE-cadherin), which increases VEGF receptor 2 (VEGFR2)-Src-VE-cadherin complex formation, resulting in increased cell surface VE-cadherin and inhibition of vascular hyperpermeability. On the other hand, hypoxia and reoxygenation increased the phosphorylation levels of Src and VE-cadherin and reduced the formation of the VEGFR2-Src-VE-cadherin complex, which led to reduced cell surface VE-cadherin and increased vascular hyperpermeability; all were inhibited by losartan. These data suggest that losartan may be used for blocking vascular hyperpermeability associated with I/R.-Li, Y., Yao, Y., Li, J., Chen, Q., Zhang, L., Wang, Q. K. Losartan protects against myocardial ischemia and reperfusion injury via vascular integrity preservation.	X-linked hypophosphatemia (XLH) is the most common hereditary rickets, caused by mutations in PHEX encoding the phosphate regulating endopeptidase homolog X-linked. Here, we report a nonsense variant in exon 11 of PHEX (c.1209G&gt;A p.Trp403*) cosegregating with XLH in a Chinese family with a LOD score of 2.70. Real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction analysis demonstrated that p.Trp403* variant did not cause nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD), but significantly increased the expression level of FGF23 mRNA in the patients. Interestingly, p.Trp403* significantly reduced phosphorylation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) but not ERK1/2. Moreover, overexpression of FGF23 significantly decreased phosphorylation of p38 MAPK, whereas knockdown of FGF23 by siRNA significantly increased phosphorylation of p38 MAPK. These data suggest that p.Trp403* may not function via an NMD mechanism, and instead causes XLH via a novel signaling mechanism involving PHEX, FGF23, and p38 MAPK. This finding provides important insights into genetic and molecular mechanisms for the pathogenesis of XLH.	Atrial fibrillation (AF) affects 33.5 million individuals worldwide. It accounts for 15% of strokes and increases risk of heart failure and sudden death. The voltage-gated cardiac sodium channel complex is responsible for the generation and conduction of the cardiac action potential, and composed of the main pore-forming α-subunit Nav 1.5 (encoded by the SCN5A gene) and one or more auxiliary β-subunits, including Nav β1 to Nav β4 encoded by SCN1B to SCN4B, respectively. We and others identified loss-of-function mutations in SCN1B and SCN2B and dominant-negative mutations in SCN3B in patients with AF. Three missense variants in SCN4B were identified in sporadic AF patients and small nuclear families; however, the association between SCN4B variants and AF remains to be further defined. In this study, we performed mutational analysis in SCN4B using a panel of 477 AF patients, and identified one nonsynonymous genomic variant p.Gly8Ser in four patients. To assess the association between the p.Gly8Ser variant and AF, we carried out case-control association studies with two independent populations (944 AF patients vs. 9,81 non-AF controls in the first discovery population and 732 cases and 1,291 controls in the second replication population). Significant association was identified in the two independent populations and in the combined population (p = 4.16 × 10<sup>-4</sup> , odds ratio [OR] = 3.14) between p.Gly8Ser and common AF as well as lone AF (p = 0.018, OR = 2.85). These data suggest that rare variant p.Gly8Ser of SCN4B confers a significant risk of AF, and SCN4B is a candidate susceptibility gene for AF.	Nav1.5 is the α-subunit of the cardiac sodium channel complex. Abnormal expression of Nav1.5 on the cell surface because of mutations that disrupt Nav1.5 trafficking causes Brugada syndrome (BrS), sick sinus syndrome (SSS), cardiac conduction disease, dilated cardiomyopathy, and sudden infant death syndrome. We and others previously reported that Ran-binding protein MOG1 (MOG1), a small protein that interacts with Nav1.5, promotes Nav1.5 intracellular trafficking to plasma membranes and that a substitution in MOG1, E83D, causes BrS. However, the molecular basis for the MOG1/Nav1.5 interaction and how the E83D substitution causes BrS remains unknown. Here, we assessed the effects of defined MOG1 deletions and alanine-scanning substitutions on MOG1's interaction with Nav1.5. Large deletion analysis mapped the MOG1 domain required for the interaction with Nav1.5 to the region spanning amino acids 146-174, and a refined deletion analysis further narrowed this domain to amino acids 146-155. Site-directed mutagenesis further revealed that Asp-148, Arg-150, and Ser-151 cluster in a peptide loop essential for binding to Nav1.5. GST pulldown and electrophysiological analyses disclosed that the substitutions E83D, D148Q, R150Q, and S151Q disrupt MOG1's interaction with Nav1.5 and significantly reduce its trafficking to the cell surface. Examination of MOG1's 3D structure revealed that Glu-83 and the loop containing Asp-148, Arg-150, and Ser-151 are spatially proximal, suggesting that these residues form a critical binding site for Nav1.5. In conclusion, our findings identify the structural elements in MOG1 that are crucial for its interaction with Nav1.5 and improve our understanding of how the E83D substitution causes BrS.	The cardiac sodium channel Nav1.5 is essential for the physiological function of the heart and causes cardiac arrhythmias and sudden death when mutated. Many disease-causing mutations in Nav1.5 cause defects in protein trafficking, a cellular process critical to the targeting of Nav1.5 to cell surface. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the trafficking of Nav1.5, in particular, the exit from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) for cell surface trafficking, remain poorly understood. Here we investigated the role of the SAR1 GTPases in trafficking of Nav1.5. Overexpression of dominant-negative mutant SAR1A (T39N or H79G) or SAR1B (T39N or H79G) significantly reduces the expression level of Nav1.5 on cell surface, and decreases the peak sodium current density (INa) in HEK/Nav1.5 cells and neonatal rat cardiomyocytes. Simultaneous knockdown of SAR1A and SAR1B expression by siRNAs significantly reduces the INa density, whereas single knockdown of either SAR1A or SAR1B has minimal effect. Computer modeling showed that the three-dimensional structure of SAR1 is similar to RAN. RAN was reported to interact with MOG1, a small protein involved in regulation of the ER exit of Nav1.5. Co-immunoprecipitation showed that SAR1A or SAR1B interacted with MOG1. Interestingly, knockdown of SAR1A and SAR1B expression abolished the MOG1-mediated increases in both cell surface trafficking of Nav1.5 and the density of INa. These data suggest that SAR1A and SAR1B are the critical regulators of trafficking of Nav1.5. Moreover, SAR1A and SAR1B interact with MOG1, and are required for MOG1-mediated cell surface expression and function of Nav1.5.	The phlda3 gene encodes a small, 127-amino acid protein with only a PH domain, and is involved in tumor suppression, proliferation of islet β-cells, insulin secretion, glucose tolerance, and liver injury. However, the role of phlda3 in vascular development is unknown. Here, we show that phlda3 overexpression decreases the expression levels of hemangioblast markers scl, fli1, and etsrp and intersegmental vessel (ISV) markers flk1 and cdh5, and disrupts ISV development in tg(flk1:GFP) and tg(fli1:GFP) zebrafish. Moreover, phlda3 overexpression inhibits the activation of protein kinase B (AKT) in zebrafish embryos, and the developmental defects of ISVs by phlda3 overexpression were reversed by the expression of a constitutively active form of AKT. These data suggest that phlda3 is a negative regulator of hemangioblast specification and ISV development via AKT signaling.
Wang, Xiaofeng	Quantitative Health Sciences	26643287	26475830	25284902	24664664	24416633	22754269	22522380	21839177	21614139	20543891	This paper is motivated from a retrospective study of the impact of vitamin D deficiency on the clinical outcomes for critically ill patients in multi-center critical care units. The primary predictors of interest, vitamin D2 and D3 levels, are censored at a known detection limit. Within the context of generalized linear mixed models, we investigate statistical methods to handle multiple censored predictors in the presence of auxiliary variables. A Bayesian joint modeling approach is proposed to fit the complex heterogeneous multi-center data, in which the data information is fully used to estimate parameters of interest. Efficient Monte Carlo Markov chain algorithms are specifically developed depending on the nature of the response. Simulation studies demonstrate the outperformance of the proposed Bayesian approach over other existing methods. An application to the data set from the vitamin D deficiency study is presented. Possible extensions of the method regarding the absence of auxiliary variables, semiparametric models, as well as the type of censoring are also discussed.	Common limitations of clustering methods include the slow algorithm convergence, the instability of the pre-specification on a number of intrinsic parameters, and the lack of robustness to outliers. A recent clustering approach proposed a fast search algorithm of cluster centers based on their local densities. However, the selection of the key intrinsic parameters in the algorithm was not systematically investigated. It is relatively difficult to estimate the &quot;optimal&quot; parameters since the original definition of the local density in the algorithm is based on a truncated counting measure. In this paper, we propose a clustering procedure with adaptive density peak detection, where the local density is estimated through the nonparametric multivariate kernel estimation. The model parameter is then able to be calculated from the equations with statistical theoretical justification. We also develop an automatic cluster centroid selection method through maximizing an average silhouette index. The advantage and flexibility of the proposed method are demonstrated through simulation studies and the analysis of a few benchmark gene expression data sets. The method only needs to perform in one single step without any iteration and thus is fast and has a great potential to apply on big data analysis. A user-friendly R package ADPclust is developed for public use.	This paper is motivated by a wide range of background correction problems in gene array data analysis, where the raw gene expression intensities are measured with error. Estimating a conditional density function from the contaminated expression data is a key aspect of statistical inference and visualization in these studies. We propose re-weighted deconvolution kernel methods to estimate the conditional density function in an additive error model, when the error distribution is known as well as when it is unknown. Theoretical properties of the proposed estimators are investigated with respect to the mean absolute error from a &quot;double asymptotic&quot; view. Practical rules are developed for the selection of smoothing-parameters. Simulated examples and an application to an Illumina bead microarray study are presented to illustrate the viability of the methods.	Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) is a quantitative magnetic resonance imaging technique that measures the three-dimensional diffusion of water molecules within tissue through the application of multiple diffusion gradients. This technique is rapidly increasing in popularity for studying white matter properties and structural connectivity in the living human brain. One of the major outcomes derived from the DTI process is known as fractional anisotropy, a continuous measure restricted on the interval (0,1). Motivated from a longitudinal DTI study of multiple sclerosis, we use a beta semiparametric-mixed regression model for the neuroimaging data. This work extends the generalized additive model methodology with beta distribution family and random effects. We describe two estimation methods with penalized splines, which are formalized under a Bayesian inferential perspective. The first one is carried out by Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) simulations while the second one uses a relatively new technique called integrated nested Laplace approximation (INLA). Simulations and the neuroimaging data analysis show that the estimates obtained from both approaches are stable and similar, while the INLA method provides an efficient alternative to the computationally expensive MCMC method. 	Integrated nested Laplace approximations (INLA) are a recently proposed approximate Bayesian approach to fit structured additive regression models with latent Gaussian field. INLA method, as an alternative to Markov chain Monte Carlo techniques, provides accurate approximations to estimate posterior marginals and avoid time-consuming sampling. We show here that two classical nonparametric smoothing problems, nonparametric regression and density estimation, can be achieved using INLA. Simulated examples and R functions are demonstrated to illustrate the use of the methods. Some discussions on potential applications of INLA are made in the paper.	The error distribution is generally unknown in deconvolution problems with real applications. A separate independent experiment is thus often conducted to collect the additional noise data in those studies. In this paper, we study the nonparametric deconvolution estimation from a contaminated sample coupled with an additional noise sample. A ridge-based kernel deconvolution estimator is proposed and its asymptotic properties are investigated depending on the error magnitude. We then present a data-driven bandwidth selection algorithm with combining the bootstrap method and the idea of simulation extrapolation. The finite sample performance of the proposed methods and the effects of error magnitude are evaluated through simulation studies. A real data analysis for a gene Illumina BeadArray study is performed to illustrate the use of the proposed methods.	This paper is motivated from the analysis of neuroscience data in a study of neural and muscular mechanisms of muscle fatigue. Multidimensional outcomes of different natures were obtained simultaneously from multiple modalities, including handgrip force, electromyography (EMG), and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). We first study individual modeling of the univariate response depending on its nature. A mixed-effects beta model and a mixed-effects simplex model are compared for modeling the force/EMG percentages. A mixed-effects negative-binomial model is proposed for modeling the fMRI counts. Then, I present a joint modeling approach to model the multidimensional outcomes together, which allows us to not only estimate the covariate effects but also to evaluate the strength of association among the multiple responses from different modalities. A simulation study is conducted to quantify the possible benefits by the new approaches in finite sample situations. Finally, the analysis of the fatigue data is illustrated with the use of the proposed methods.	In this study functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) was used to evaluate cortical motor network adaptation after a rehabilitation program for upper extremity motor function in chronic stroke patients. Patients and healthy controls were imaged when they attempted to perform shoulder-elbow and wrist-hand movements in a 1.5 T Siemens scanner. We perform fMRI analysis at both single- and group-subject levels. Activated voxel counts are calculated to quantify brain activation in regions of interest. We discuss several candidate regression models for making inference on the count data, and propose an application of a generalized negative-binomial model (GNBM) with structured dispersion in the study. The effects of inappropriate statistical models that ignore the nature of data are addressed through Monte Carlo simulations. Based on the GNBM, significant activation differences are observed in a number of cortical regions for stroke versus control and as a result of treatment; notably, these differences are not detected when the data are analyzed using a conventional linear regression model. Our findings provide an improved functional neuroimaging data analysis protocol, specifically for pixel/voxel counts.	Data from many scientific areas often come with measurement error. Density or distribution function estimation from contaminated data and nonparametric regression with errors-in-variables are two important topics in measurement error models. In this paper, we present a new software package decon for R, which contains a collection of functions that use the deconvolution kernel methods to deal with the measurement error problems. The functions allow the errors to be either homoscedastic or heteroscedastic. To make the deconvolution estimators computationally more efficient in R, we adapt the fast Fourier transform algorithm for density estimation with error-free data to the deconvolution kernel estimation. We discuss the practical selection of the smoothing parameter in deconvolution methods and illustrate the use of the package through both simulated and real examples.	Multivariate local regression is an important tool for image processing and analysis. In many practical biomedical problems, one is often interested in comparing a group of images or regression surfaces. In this paper, we extend the existing method of testing the equality of nonparametric curves by Dette and Neumeyer (2001) and consider a test statistic by means of an Lgrangian (2)-distance in the multi-dimensional case under a completely heteroscedastic nonparametric model. The test statistic is also extended to be used in the case of spatial correlated errors. Two bootstrap procedures are described in order to approximate the critical values of the test depending on the nature of random errors. The resulting algorithms and analyses are illustrated from both simulation studies and a real medical example.
Wessely, Oliver	Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences	29530879	25127994	24733901	23974984	23352791	22639256	22028899	29560130	27214281	27144987	The development of the kidney relies on the establishment and maintenance of a precise tubular diameter of its functional units, the nephrons. This process is disrupted in polycystic kidney disease (PKD), resulting in dilations of the nephron and renal cyst formation. In the course of exploring G-protein-coupled signaling in the Xenopus pronephric kidney, we discovered that loss of the G-protein α subunit, Gnas, results in a PKD phenotype. Polycystin 1, one of the genes mutated in human PKD, encodes a protein resembling a G-protein-coupled receptor. Furthermore, deletion of the G-protein-binding domain present in the intracellular C terminus of polycystin 1 impacts functionality. A comprehensive analysis of all the G-protein α subunits expressed in the Xenopus pronephric kidney demonstrates that polycystin 1 recruits a select subset of G-protein α subunits and that their knockdown - as in the case of Gnas - results in a PKD phenotype. Mechanistically, the phenotype is caused by increased endogenous G-protein β/γ signaling and can be reversed by pharmacological inhibitors as well as knocking down Gnb1. Together, our data support the hypothesis that G proteins are recruited to the intracellular domain of PKD1 and that this interaction is crucial for its function in the kidney.	The kidney is a homeostatic organ required for waste excretion and reabsorption of water, salts and other macromolecules. To this end, a complex series of developmental steps ensures the formation of a correctly patterned and properly proportioned organ. While previous studies have mainly focused on the individual signaling pathways, the formation of higher order receptor complexes in lipid rafts is an equally important aspect. These membrane platforms are characterized by differences in local lipid and protein compositions. Indeed, the cells in the Xenopus pronephric kidney were positive for the lipid raft markers ganglioside GM1 and Caveolin-1. To specifically interfere with lipid raft function in vivo, we focused on the Sterol Carrier Protein 2 (scp2), a multifunctional protein that is an important player in remodeling lipid raft composition. In Xenopus, scp2 mRNA was strongly expressed in differentiated epithelial structures of the pronephric kidney. Knockdown of scp2 did not interfere with the patterning of the kidney along its proximo-distal axis, but dramatically decreased the size of the kidney, in particular the proximal tubules. This phenotype was accompanied by a reduction of lipid rafts, but was independent of the peroxisomal or transcriptional activities of scp2. Finally, disrupting lipid micro-domains by inhibiting cholesterol synthesis using Mevinolin phenocopied the defects seen in scp2 morphants. Together these data underscore the importance for localized signaling platforms in the proper formation of the Xenopus kidney.	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are major posttranscriptional regulators of a wide variety of biological processes. However, redundancy among most miRNAs has made it difficult to identify their in vivo functions. We previously demonstrated that global inhibition of miRNA biogenesis in Xenopus resulted in a dramatically smaller pronephric kidney. This suggested that microRNAs play a pivotal role in organ size control. Here we now provide a detailed mechanistic explanation for this phenotype. We identified that the activation of the mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) by Insulin and insulin-like growth factor (Igf) 2 is an important regulator in kidney growth, which in turn is modulated by microRNAs. Molecular analyses demonstrate that microRNAs set a threshold for mTORC1 signaling by down-regulating one of its core negative regulators, tuberous sclerosis 1 (Tsc1). Most importantly, this rheostat can be reprogrammed experimentally. Whereas knockdown of miRNAs causes growth arrest, concomitant knockdown of Tsc1 restores mTORC1 activity and proximal tubular size. Together, these data establish a previously unidentified in vivo paradigm for the importance of posttranscriptional regulation in organ size control. 	The main functions of the kidney are to excrete metabolic waste products and actively reabsorb essential molecules such as amino acids, ions, glucose and water. In humans, a wide range of genetic disorders exist characterized by wasting of metabolically important compounds. At the cellular level, more than 20 highly specialized renal epithelial cell types located in different segments of the nephron contribute to the reabsorption process. In particular, proximal tubular cells play a crucial role and are uniquely adapted to maximize reabsorption efficiency. They accommodate high numbers of transporters and channels by increasing the apical surface area in contact with the primary filtrate by forming a brush border as well as undergoing hypertrophy and hyperplasia. This adaptation is evolutionarily conserved and is detected in the primitive pronephric kidney of fish and amphibians as well as the metanephric kidney of higher vertebrates. Surprisingly, signaling pathways regulating these three processes have remained largely unknown. Here we summarize recent studies that highlight the early phases of kidney development as a critical juncture in establishing proximal tubule size. 	In the kidney, proximal tubules are very important for the reabsorption of water, ions and organic solutes from the primary urine. They are composed of highly specialized epithelial cells that are characterized by an elaborate apical brush border to increase transport efficiency. Using the pronephric kidney of Xenopus laevis we discovered that the G-protein modulator cholera toxin resulted in a dramatic reduction of the proximal tubular size. This phenotype was accompanied by changes in the cytoarchitecture characterized by ectopic expression of the distal tubular marker 4A6 and an impairment of yolk platelet degradation. In addition, cholera toxin caused edema formation. However, this phenotype was not due to kidney defects, but rather due to impaired vasculature development. Based on experiments with antisense morpholino oligomers as well as pharmacological agonists and antagonists, we could show that the complex phenotype of cholera toxin in the pronephric kidney was caused by the hyperactivation of a single G-protein alpha subunit, Gnas. This-in turn-caused elevated cAMP levels, triggered a Rapgef4-dependent signaling cassette and perturbed exo- and endocytosis. This perturbation of the secretory pathway by Ctx was not only observed in Xenopus embryos. Also, in a human proximal tubular cell line, cholera toxin or a Rapgef4-specific agonist increased uptake and decreased secretion of FITC-labeled Albumin. Based on these data we propose that the Gnas/cAMP/Rapgef4 pathway regulates the signals inducing the proliferation of proximal tubules to acquire their final organ size.	Organ development requires the coordination of proliferation and differentiation of various cell types. This is particularly challenging in the kidney, where up to 26 different cell types with highly specialized functions are present. Moreover, even though the nephron initially develops from a common progenitor pool, the individual nephron segments are ultimately quite different in respect to cell numbers. This suggests that some cells in the nephron have a higher proliferative index (i.e., cell cycle length) than others. Here, we describe two different immunofluorescence-based approaches to accurately quantify such growth rates in the pronephric kidney of Xenopus laevis. Rapidly dividing cells were identified with the mitosis marker phospho-Histone H3, while slowly cycling cells were labeled using the thymidine analogue EdU. In addition, individual nephron segments were marked using cell type-specific antibodies. To accurately assess the number of positively stained cells, embryos were then serially sectioned and analyzed by immunofluorescence microscopy. Growth rates were established by counting the mitosis or S-phase events in relation to the overall cells present in the nephron segment of interest. This experimental design is very reproducible and can easily be modified to fit other animal models and organ systems.	The formation of the vertebrate kidney is tightly regulated and relies on multiple evolutionarily conserved inductive events. These are present in the complex metanephric kidney of higher vertebrates, but also in the more primitive pronephric kidney functional in the larval stages of amphibians and fish. Wnts have long been viewed as central in this process. Canonical β-Catenin-dependent Wnt signaling establishes kidney progenitors and non-canonical β-Catenin-independent Wnt signaling participate in the morphogenetic processes that form the highly sophisticated nephron structure. While some individual Wnt signaling components have been studied extensively in the kidney, the overall pathway has not yet been analyzed in depth. Here we report a detailed expression analysis of all Wnt ligands, receptors and several downstream Wnt effectors during pronephros development in Xenopus laevis using in situ hybridization. Out of 19 Wnt ligands, only three, Wnt4, Wnt9a and Wnt11, are specifically expressed in the pronephros. Others such as Wnt8a are present, but in a broader domain comprising adjacent tissues in addition to the kidney. The same paradigm is observed for the Wnt receptors and its downstream signaling components. Fzd1, Fzd4, Fzd6, Fzd7, Fzd8 as well as Celsr1 and Prickle1 show distinct expression domains in the pronephric kidney, whereas the non-traditional Wnt receptors, Ror2 and Ryk, as well as the majority of the effector molecules are rather ubiquitous. In addition to this spatial regulation, the timing of expression is also tightly regulated. In particular, non-canonical Wnt signaling seems to be restricted to later stages of pronephros development. Together these data suggest a complex cross talk between canonical and non-canonical Wnt signaling is required to establish a functional pronephric kidney.	Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) affects one million people in the US. Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a subtype of IBD that can lead to colitis-associated cancer (CAC). In UC, the rate of CAC is 3-5-fold greater than the rate of sporadic colorectal cancer (CRC). The pathogenesis of UC and CAC are due to aberrant interactions between host immune system and microenvironment, but precise mechanisms are still unknown. In colitis and CAC, microenvironmental fibroblasts exhibit an activated, inflammatory phenotype that contributes to tumorigenesis accompanied by excessive secretion of the chemokine CXCL8. However, mechanisms regulating CXCL8 secretion are unclear. Since it is known that miRNAs regulate chemokines such as CXCL8, we queried a microRNA library for mimics affecting CXCL8 secretion. Among the identified microRNAs, miR-20a/b was further investigated as its stromal expression levels inversely correlated with the amounts of CXCL8 secreted and predicted fibroblast tumor-promoting activity. Indeed, miR-20a directly bound to the 3'UTR of CXCL8 mRNA and regulated its expression by translational repression. In vivo co-inoculation studies with CRC stem cells demonstrated that fibroblasts characterized by high miR-20a expression had reduced tumor-promoting activities. These studies reveal that in stromal fibroblasts, miR-20a modulates CXCL8 function, therefore influencing tumor latency.	WNT ligands induce Ca(2+) signalling on target cells. PKD1 (polycystin 1) is considered an orphan, atypical G-protein-coupled receptor complexed with TRPP2 (polycystin 2 or PKD2), a Ca(2+)-permeable ion channel. Inactivating mutations in their genes cause autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), one of the most common genetic diseases. Here, we show that WNTs bind to the extracellular domain of PKD1 and induce whole-cell currents and Ca(2+) influx dependent on TRPP2. Pathogenic PKD1 or PKD2 mutations that abrogate complex formation, compromise cell surface expression of PKD1, or reduce TRPP2 channel activity suppress activation by WNTs. Pkd2(-/-) fibroblasts lack WNT-induced Ca(2+) currents and are unable to polarize during directed cell migration. In Xenopus embryos, pkd1, Dishevelled 2 (dvl2) and wnt9a act within the same pathway to preserve normal tubulogenesis. These data define PKD1 as a WNT (co)receptor and implicate defective WNT/Ca(2+) signalling as one of the causes of ADPKD.	CUG-BP, Elav-like family member 1 (CELF1) is a multifunctional RNA binding protein found in a variety of adult and embryonic tissues. In the heart, CELF1 is found exclusively in the myocardium. However, the roles of CELF1 during cardiac development have not been completely elucidated. Myofibrillar organization is disrupted and proliferation is reduced following knockdown of CELF1 in cultured chicken primary embryonic cardiomyocytes. In vivo knockdown of Celf1 in developing Xenopus laevis embryos resulted in myofibrillar disorganization and a trend toward reduced proliferation in heart muscle, indicating conserved roles for CELF1 orthologs in embryonic cardiomyocytes. Loss of Celf1 also resulted in morphogenetic abnormalities in the developing heart and gut. Using optical coherence tomography, we showed that cardiac contraction was impaired following depletion of Celf1, while heart rhythm remained unperturbed. In contrast to cardiac muscle, loss of Celf1 did not disrupt myofibril organization in skeletal muscle cells, although it did lead to fragmentation of skeletal muscle bundles. CELF1 is required for normal myofibril organization, proliferation, morphogenesis, and contractile performance in the developing myocardium. Developmental Dynamics 245:854-873, 2016. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Williams, Jessica	Neurosciences	24920943	18245499	21463904	22966080	24733828	23706172	22966080	28134626	26556427	23797673	In the adult central nervous system (CNS), chemokines and their receptors are involved in developmental, physiological and pathological processes. Although most lines of investigation focus on their ability to induce the migration of cells, recent studies indicate that chemokines also promote cellular interactions and activate signaling pathways that maintain CNS homeostatic functions. Many homeostatic chemokines are expressed on the vasculature of the blood brain barrier (BBB) including CXCL12, CCL19, CCL20, and CCL21. While endothelial cell expression of these chemokines is known to regulate the entry of leukocytes into the CNS during immunosurveillance, new data indicate that CXCL12 is also involved in diverse cellular activities including adult neurogenesis and neuronal survival, having an opposing role to the homeostatic chemokine, CXCL14, which appears to regulate synaptic inputs to neural precursors. Neuronal expression of CX3CL1, yet another homeostatic chemokine that promotes neuronal survival and communication with microglia, is partly regulated by CXCL12. Regulation of CXCL12 is unique in that it may regulate its own expression levels via binding to its scavenger receptor CXCR7/ACKR3. In this review, we explore the diverse roles of these and other homeostatic chemokines expressed within the CNS, including the possible implications of their dysfunction as a cause of neurologic disease. 	Long distance transportation may affect the health of pigs; thus, adding a rest stop (lairage) during long journeys may improve their well-being. The objective of this study was to determine whether a mid-journey lairage influenced swine innate immunity and intestinal microbial populations after a 16-h transport. Four replications were conducted, 1 in each of 4 seasons. Eighteen-kilogram pigs were housed in 16 pens (13 to 16 pigs/pen) with 8 pens/treatment. Lairage pigs were transported for 8 h, given a rest with food and water for 8 h, then transported for an additional 8 h. Continuous pigs were continuously transported for 16 h. Jugular blood samples and intestinal tissue and contents were collected from 16 pigs (8/treatment) on d 1, 3, 7, and 14 posttransport. Hematocrit and white blood cell counts were determined and neutrophil cell functions, including phagocytosis/oxidative burst and phagocytosis of latex beads and leukocyte phenotypic cell markers (CD14 and CD18), were analyzed using flow cytometry. Expression of toll-like receptors 2, 4, and 5; IL-8 (a cytokine that is a chemoattractant for neutrophils); CCL20 (a chemokine that is a chemoattractant for dendritic cells); and the antimicrobial peptide PR39 were determined from ileal and jejunal total RNA. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis was used to determine shifts in intestinal microbial populations. Total white blood cell and granulocyte counts in continuous pigs were greater (P &lt; 0.01) on d 1 than in lairage pigs. Phagocytosis of microbeads was greater in continuous (P &lt; 0.05) than in lairage pigs on d 7. Expression of IL-8 in jejunum was greater (P &lt; 0.05) for continuous than for lairage pigs on d 1. Expression of CCL20 in the ileum was greater (P &lt; 0.05) on d 14 for the continuous pigs. Expression of PR39 was greatest (P &lt; 0.05) in the jejunum of lairage pigs on d 3. Lairage pigs had a greater (P &lt; 0.05) variation in microbial populations (lower similarity coefficient) in the jejunum contents on d 1 and 7, in the cecum contents and tissue on d 3, and in the jejunum contents and tissue on d 14. However, continuous pigs had greater (P &lt; 0.05) variation in the ileal tissues on d 14. This study indicates that adding a lairage to an extended transport alters immune functions, receptor, cytokine and chemokine expression, and gut microbiota compared with pigs transported for 16 h without lairage.	Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an inflammatory disease of the CNS mediated by CD4(+) T cells directed against myelin antigens. Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) is induced by immunization with myelin antigens like myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG). We have explored the transfer of EAE using MOG(35-55)-specific TCR transgenic (2D2) T cells. Unsorted 2D2 Th1 cells reliably transferred EAE. Further, we found that CD44(hi)CD62L(lo) effector/memory CD4(+) T cells are likely responsible for the disease transfer due to the up-regulation of CD44. Given the importance of MOG in MS pathogenesis, mechanistic insights into adoptively transferred EAE by MOG-specific Th1 cells could prove valuable in MS research.	Long distance transportation of weaned piglets (Sus scrofa) is increasingly common in the united states and may result in delayed eating, drinking, or normal social behaviors. A potential solution is a mid-journey rest (lairage). The objective of this study was to determine if a lairage altered behavior after a 16-h transport. Pigs that weighed approximately 18 kg each (n = 894) were housed in 16 pens with 8 pens per treatment. Lairaged pigs were transported for 8 h and given an 8-h rest with food and water, whereas control pigs were transported continuously for 16 h. The heaviest, the lightest, and 2 average-BW pigs relative to the average weight of the pen were observed by video recording for 24 h immediately before and after transport, and during d 6 and 13 after transport. Postures (lying, sitting, and standing) were recorded using 10-min-interval scan sampling, and behavioral categories included inactivity, activities (eating, drinking, alert, manipulating pen, rooting, and walking) and social interactions (aggression, belly nosing, playing, tail biting, and positive social behaviors). In both treatments, sitting occurred most before transport (P &lt; 0.01) than at other times, but did not differ between treatments. Standing increased (time effect; P &lt; 0.01) for both treatments immediately after transport through d 6, but returned to pre-transport values by d 13. In contrast, lying decreased (time effect; P &lt; 0.01) after transport, but returned to above pre-transport values by d 13. Time effects were evident for activity (P &lt; 0.01), pen manipulation (P = 0.05), rooting (P &lt; 0.01), initiation of belly-nosing (P = 0.01), and receiving belly-nosing (P = 0.03); however, initiation of aggression did not differ for day (P = 0.19) or treatment (P = 0.56). Lairaged pigs initiated more (P = 0.05) play than continuously transported pigs, but no differences (P = 0.84) were seen in receipt of play behavior. Pigs that were to be transported for 16 h continuously walked less pre-transport, walked more post-transport (treatment × time interaction; P = 0.02), and drank less pre-transport, but drank more on all days post-transport compared with the lairage group (treatment × time interaction; P = 0.001). This study indicated that extended transport without lairage alters some swine behaviors relevant to production (water consumption) and demonstrated that a long-duration transport, regardless of the mid-journey lairage treatment, affects a number of behaviors up to 13 d after transportation.	Current treatment modalities for the neurodegenerative disease multiple sclerosis (MS) use disease-modifying immunosuppressive compounds but do not promote repair. Although several potential targets that may induce myelin production have been identified, there has yet to be an approved therapy that promotes remyelination in the damaged central nervous system (CNS). Remyelination of damaged axons requires the generation of new oligodendrocytes from oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs). Although OPCs are detected in MS lesions, repair of myelin is limited, contributing to progressive clinical deterioration. In the CNS, the chemokine CXCL12 promotes remyelination via CXCR4 activation on OPCs, resulting in their differentiation into myelinating oligodendrocytes. Although the CXCL12 scavenging receptor CXCR7/ACKR3 (CXCR7) is also expressed by OPCs, its role in myelin repair in the adult CNS is unknown. We show that during cuprizone-induced demyelination, in vivo CXCR7 antagonism augmented OPC proliferation, leading to increased numbers of mature oligodendrocytes within demyelinated lesions. CXCR7-mediated effects on remyelination required CXCR4 activation, as assessed via both phospho-S339-CXCR4-specific antibodies and administration of CXCR4 antagonists. These findings identify a role for CXCR7 in OPC maturation during remyelination and are the first to use a small molecule to therapeutically enhance myelin repair in the demyelinated adult CNS. 	In multiple sclerosis (MS) and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), relapses are markedly reduced during pregnancy. Exosomes are lipid-bound vesicles and are more abundant in the serum during pregnancy. Using murine EAE, we demonstrate that serum exosomes suppress T cell activation, promote the maturation of oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPC), and pregnancy exosomes facilitate OPC migration into active CNS lesions. However, exosomes derived from both pregnant and non-pregnant mice reduced the severity of established EAE. Thus, during pregnancy, serum exosomes modulate the immune and central nervous systems and contribute to pregnancy-associated suppression of EAE. 	Long distance transportation of weaned piglets (Sus scrofa) is increasingly common in the united states and may result in delayed eating, drinking, or normal social behaviors. A potential solution is a mid-journey rest (lairage). The objective of this study was to determine if a lairage altered behavior after a 16-h transport. Pigs that weighed approximately 18 kg each (n = 894) were housed in 16 pens with 8 pens per treatment. Lairaged pigs were transported for 8 h and given an 8-h rest with food and water, whereas control pigs were transported continuously for 16 h. The heaviest, the lightest, and 2 average-BW pigs relative to the average weight of the pen were observed by video recording for 24 h immediately before and after transport, and during d 6 and 13 after transport. Postures (lying, sitting, and standing) were recorded using 10-min-interval scan sampling, and behavioral categories included inactivity, activities (eating, drinking, alert, manipulating pen, rooting, and walking) and social interactions (aggression, belly nosing, playing, tail biting, and positive social behaviors). In both treatments, sitting occurred most before transport (P &lt; 0.01) than at other times, but did not differ between treatments. Standing increased (time effect; P &lt; 0.01) for both treatments immediately after transport through d 6, but returned to pre-transport values by d 13. In contrast, lying decreased (time effect; P &lt; 0.01) after transport, but returned to above pre-transport values by d 13. Time effects were evident for activity (P &lt; 0.01), pen manipulation (P = 0.05), rooting (P &lt; 0.01), initiation of belly-nosing (P = 0.01), and receiving belly-nosing (P = 0.03); however, initiation of aggression did not differ for day (P = 0.19) or treatment (P = 0.56). Lairaged pigs initiated more (P = 0.05) play than continuously transported pigs, but no differences (P = 0.84) were seen in receipt of play behavior. Pigs that were to be transported for 16 h continuously walked less pre-transport, walked more post-transport (treatment × time interaction; P = 0.02), and drank less pre-transport, but drank more on all days post-transport compared with the lairage group (treatment × time interaction; P = 0.001). This study indicated that extended transport without lairage alters some swine behaviors relevant to production (water consumption) and demonstrated that a long-duration transport, regardless of the mid-journey lairage treatment, affects a number of behaviors up to 13 d after transportation.	Type I IFNs promote cellular responses to viruses, and IFN receptor (IFNAR) signaling regulates the responses of endothelial cells of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) during neurotropic viral infection. However, the role of astrocytes in innate immune responses of the BBB during viral infection of the CNS remains to be fully elucidated. Here, we have demonstrated that type I IFNAR signaling in astrocytes regulates BBB permeability and protects the cerebellum from infection and immunopathology. Mice with astrocyte-specific loss of IFNAR signaling showed decreased survival after West Nile virus infection. Accelerated mortality was not due to expanded viral tropism or increased replication. Rather, viral entry increased specifically in the hindbrain of IFNAR-deficient mice, suggesting that IFNAR signaling critically regulates BBB permeability in this brain region. Pattern recognition receptors and IFN-stimulated genes had higher basal and IFN-induced expression in human and mouse cerebellar astrocytes than did cerebral cortical astrocytes, suggesting that IFNAR signaling has brain region-specific roles in CNS immune responses. Taken together, our data identify cerebellar astrocytes as key responders to viral infection and highlight the existence of distinct innate immune programs in astrocytes from evolutionarily disparate regions of the CNS.	The discovery that chemokines and their receptors are expressed by a variety of cell types within the normal adult central nervous system (CNS) has led to an expansion of their repertoire as molecular interfaces between the immune and nervous systems. Thus, CNS chemokines are now divided into those molecules that regulate inflammatory cell migration into the CNS and those that initiate CNS repair from inflammation-mediated tissue damage. Work in our laboratory throughout the past decade has sought to elucidate how chemokines coordinate leukocyte entry and interactions at CNS endothelial barriers, under both homeostatic and inflammatory conditions, and how they promote repair within the CNS parenchyma. These studies have identified several chemokines, including CXCL12 and CXCL10, as critical regulators of leukocyte migration from perivascular locations. CXCL12 additionally plays an essential role in promoting remyelination of injured white matter. In both scenarios we have shown that chemokines serve as molecular links between inflammatory mediators and other effector molecules involved in neuroprotective processes. 	Macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) is a multipotent cytokine that is associated with clinical worsening and relapses in multiple sclerosis (MS) patients. The mechanism through which MIF promotes MS progression remains undefined. In this study, we identify a critical role for MIF in regulating CNS effector mechanisms necessary for the development of inflammatory pathology in a mouse model of MS, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Despite the ability to generate pathogenic myelin-specific immune responses peripherally, MIF-deficient mice have reduced EAE severity and exhibit less CNS inflammatory pathology, with a greater percentage of resting microglia and fewer infiltrating inflammatory macrophages. We demonstrate that MIF is essential for promoting microglial activation and production of the innate soluble mediators IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α, and inducible NO synthase. We propose a novel role for MIF in inducing microglial C/EBP-β, a transcription factor shown to regulate myeloid cell function and play an important role in neuroinflammation. Intraspinal stereotaxic microinjection of MIF resulted in upregulation of inflammatory mediators in microglia, which was sufficient to restore EAE-mediated inflammatory pathology in MIF-deficient mice. To further implicate a role for MIF, we show that MIF is highly expressed in human active MS lesions. Thus, these results illustrate the ability of MIF to influence the CNS cellular and molecular inflammatory milieu during EAE and point to the therapeutic potential of targeting MIF in MS. 
Wilson, Steven	Ophthalmic Research	30884531	30480706	30284084	30098200	29596850	29481786	28780779	28625845	28506643	28275314	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of removal of Descemet's basement membrane and endothelium compared with removal of the endothelium alone on posterior corneal fibrosis. Twelve New Zealand White rabbits were included in the study. Six eyes had removal of the Descemet's membrane-endothelial complex over the central 8 mm of the cornea. Six eyes had endothelial removal with an olive-tipped cannula over the central 8 mm of the cornea. All corneas developed stromal edema. Corneas in both groups were cryofixed in optimum cutting temperature (OCT) formula at 1 month after surgery. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) was performed for α-smooth muscle actin (SMA), keratocan, CD45, nidogen-1, vimentin, and Ki-67, and a TUNEL assay was performed to detect apoptosis. Six of six corneas that had Descemet's membrane-endothelial removal developed posterior stromal fibrosis populated with SMA+ myofibroblasts, whereas zero of six corneas that had endothelial removal alone developed fibrosis or SMA+ myofibroblasts (P &lt; 0.01). Myofibroblasts in the fibrotic zone of corneas that had Descemet's membrane-endothelial removal were undergoing both mitosis and apoptosis at 1 month after surgery. A zone between keratocan+ keratocytes and SMA+ myofibroblasts contained keratocan-SMA-vimentin+ cells that were likely CD45- corneal fibroblasts and CD45+ fibrocytes. Descemet's basement membrane has an important role in modulating posterior corneal fibrosis after injury that is analogous to the role of the epithelial basement membrane in modulating anterior corneal fibrosis after injury. Fibrotic areas had myofibroblasts undergoing mitosis and apoptosis, indicating that fibrosis is in dynamic flux.	To determine whether (1) the in vitro expression of epithelial basement membrane components nidogen-1, nidogen-2, and perlecan by keratocytes, corneal fibroblasts, and myofibroblasts is modulated by cytokines/growth factors, and (2) perlecan protein is produced by stromal cells after photorefractive keratectomy. Marker-verified rabbit keratocytes, corneal fibroblasts, myofibroblasts were stimulated with TGF-β1, IL-1α, IL-1β, TGF-β3, platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)-AA, or PDGF-AB. Real-time quantitative RT-PCR was used to detect expression of nidogen-1, nidogen-2, and perlecan mRNAs. Western blotting evaluated changes in protein expression. Immunohistochemistry was performed on rabbit corneas for perlecan, alpha-smooth muscle actin, keratocan, vimentin, and CD45 at time points from 1 day to 1 month after photorefractive keratectomy (PRK). IL-1α or -1β significantly upregulated perlecan mRNA expression in keratocytes. TGF-β1 or -β3 markedly downregulated nidogen-1 or -2 mRNA expression in keratocytes. None of these cytokines had significant effects on nidogen-1, -2, or perlecan mRNA expression in corneal fibroblasts or myofibroblasts. IL-1α significantly upregulated, while TGF-β1 significantly downregulated, perlecan protein expression in keratocytes. Perlecan protein expression was upregulated in anterior stromal cells at 1 and 2 days after -4.5 or -9 diopters (D) PRK, but the subepithelial localization of perlecan became disrupted at 7 days and later time points in -9-D PRK corneas when myofibroblasts populated the anterior stroma. IL-1 and TGF-β1 have opposing effects on perlecan and nidogen expression by keratocytes in vitro. Proximate participation of keratocytes is likely needed to regenerate normal epithelial basement membrane after corneal injury.	Basement membranes are thin connective tissue structures composed of organ-specific assemblages of collagens, laminins, proteoglycan-like perlecan, nidogens, and other components. Traditionally, basement membranes are thought of as structures which primarily function to anchor epithelial, endothelial, or parenchymal cells to underlying connective tissues. While this role is important, other functions such as the modulation of growth factors and cytokines that regulate cell proliferation, migration, differentiation, and fibrosis are equally important. An example of this is the critical role of both the epithelial basement membrane and Descemet's basement membrane in the cornea in modulating myofibroblast development and fibrosis, as well as myofibroblast apoptosis and the resolution of fibrosis. This article compares the ultrastructure and functions of key basement membranes in several organs to illustrate the variability and importance of these structures in organs that commonly develop fibrosis.	The purpose of this review was to provide detailed insights into the pathophysiology of myofibroblast-mediated fibrosis (scarring or late haze) after corneal injury, surgery, or infection. Literature review. The epithelium and epithelial basement membrane (EBM) and/or endothelium and Descemet's basement membrane (BM) are commonly disrupted after corneal injuries, surgeries, and infections. Regeneration of these critical regulatory structures relies on the coordinated production of BM components, including laminins, nidogens, perlecan, and collagen type IV by epithelial, endothelial, and keratocyte cells. Whether a cornea, or an area in the cornea, heals with transparency or fibrosis may be determined by whether there is injury to one or both corneal basement membranes (EBM and/or Descemet's BM) and delayed or defective regeneration or replacement of the BM. These opaque myofibroblasts, and the disordered extracellular matrix these cells produce, persist in the stroma until the EBM and/or Descemet's BM is regenerated or replaced. Corneal stromal fibrosis (also termed &quot;stromal scarring&quot; or &quot;late haze&quot;) occurs as a consequence of BM injury and defective regeneration in both the anterior (EBM) and posterior (Descemet's BM) cornea. The resolution of fibrosis and return of stromal transparency depends on reestablished BM structure and function. It is hypothesized that defective regeneration of the EBM or Descemet's BM allows key profibrotic growth factors, including transforming growth factor beta-1 (TGF-β1) and TGF-β2, to penetrate the stroma at sustained levels necessary to drive the development and maintenance of mature opacity-producing myofibroblasts from myofibroblast precursors cells, and studies suggest that perlecan and collagen type IV are the critical components in EBM and Descemet's BM that bind TGF-β1, TGF-β2, platelet-derived growth factor, and possibly other growth factors, and regulate their bioavailability and function during homeostasis and corneal wound healing.	This study was performed to determine whether cells in the posterior stroma undergo apoptosis in response to endothelial cell injury and to determine whether basement membrane component nidogen-1 was present in the cornea. New Zealand White rabbits had an olive tip cannula inserted into the anterior chamber to mechanically injure corneal endothelial cells over an 8 mm diameter area of central cornea with minimal injury to Descemet's membrane. At 1 h (6 rabbits) and 4 h (6 rabbits) after injury, three corneas at each time point were cryopreserved in OCT for terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) assay and immunohistochemistry (IHC) for vimentin and nidogen-1, and three corneas at each time point were fixed for transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Uninjured corneas were controls. Stromal cells over approximately the posterior 25% of the stroma overlying to the site of corneal endothelial injury underwent apoptosis detected by the TUNEL assay. Many of these apoptotic cells were vimentin+, suggesting they were likely keratocytes or corneal fibroblasts. Stromal cells peripheral to the site of endothelial injury and more anterior stromal cells overlying the site of endothelial injury did not undergo apoptosis. Stromal cell death was confirmed to be apoptosis by TEM. No apoptosis of stromal cells was detected in control, uninjured corneas. Nidogen-1 was detected in the stroma of unwounded corneas, with higher nidogen-1 in the posterior stroma than the anterior stroma. After endothelial scrape injury, concentrations of nidogen-1 appeared to be in the extracellular matrix of the posterior stroma and, possibly, within apoptotic bodies of stromal cells. Thus, posterior stromal cells, likely including keratocytes, undergo apoptosis in response to corneal endothelial injury, analogous to anterior keratocytes undergoing apoptosis in response to epithelial injury.	The aim of this study was to determine whether bone marrow-derived fibrocytes migrate into the cornea after stromal scar-producing injury and differentiate into alpha-smooth muscle actin (αSMA) + myofibroblasts. Chimeric mice expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP) bone marrow cells had fibrosis (haze)-generating irregular phototherapeutic keratectomy (PTK). Multiplex immunohistochemistry (IHC) for GFP and fibrocyte markers (CD34, CD45, and vimentin) was used to detect fibrocyte infiltration into the corneal stroma and the development of GFP+ αSMA+ myofibroblasts. IHC for activated caspase-3, GFP and CD45 was used to detect fibrocyte and other hematopoietic cells undergoing apoptosis. Moderate haze developed in PTK-treated mouse corneas at 14 days after surgery and worsened, and persisted, at 21 days after surgery. GFP+ CD34+ CD45+ fibrocytes, likely in addition to other CD34+ and/or CD45+ hematopoietic and stem/progenitor cells, infiltrated the cornea and were present in the stroma in high numbers by one day after PTK. The fibrocytes and other bone marrow-derived cells progressively decreased at four days and seven days after surgery. At four days after PTK, 5% of the GFP+ cells expressed activated caspase-3. At 14 days after PTK, more than 50% of GFP+ CD45+ cells were also αSMA+ myofibroblasts. At 21 days after PTK, few GFP+ αSMA+ cells persisted in the stroma and more than 95% of those remaining expressed activated caspase-3, indicating they were undergoing apoptosis. GFP+ CD45+ SMA+ cells that developed from 4 to 21 days after irregular PTK were likely developed from fibrocytes. After irregular PTK in the strain of C57BL/6-C57/BL/6-Tg(UBC-GFP)30Scha/J chimeric mice, however, more than 95% of fibrocytes and other hematopoietic cells underwent apoptosis prior to the development of mature αSMA+ myofibroblasts. Most GFP+ CD45+ αSMA+ myofibroblasts that did develop subsequently underwent apoptosis-likely due to epithelial basement membrane regeneration and deprivation of epithelium-derived TGFβ requisite for myofibroblast survival.	Our purpose is to present a broad review about the principles, early history, evolution, applications, and complications of femtosecond lasers used in refractive and nonrefractive corneal surgical procedures. Femtosecond laser technology added not only safety, precision, and reproducibility to established corneal surgical procedures such as laser in situ keratomileusis (LASIK) and astigmatic keratotomy, but it also introduced new promising concepts such as the intrastromal lenticule procedures with refractive lenticule extraction (ReLEx). Over time, the refinements in laser optics and the overall design of femtosecond laser platforms led to it becoming an essential tool for corneal surgeons. In conclusion, femtosecond laser is a heavily utilized tool in refractive and nonrefractive corneal surgical procedures, and further technological advances are likely to expand its applications.	Myofibroblast-mediated fibrosis is important in the pathophysiology of diseases in most organs. The cornea, the transparent anterior wall of the eye that functions to focus light on the retina, is commonly affected by fibrosis and provides an optimal model due to its simplicity and accessibility. Severe injuries to the cornea, including infection, surgery, and trauma, may trigger the development of myofibroblasts and fibrosis in the normally transparent connective tissue stroma. Ultrastructural studies have demonstrated that defective epithelial basement membrane (EBM) regeneration after injury underlies the development of myofibroblasts from both bone marrow- and keratocyte-derived precursor cells in the cornea. Defective EBM permits epithelium-derived transforming growth factor beta, platelet-derived growth factor, and likely other modulators, to penetrate the stroma at sustained levels necessary to drive the development of vimentin+ alpha-smooth muscle actin+ desmin+ (V+A+D+) mature myofibroblasts and promote their persistence. Defective versus normal EBM regeneration likely relates to the severity of the stromal injury and a resulting decrease in fibroblasts (keratocytes) and their contribution of EBM components, including laminin alpha-3 and nidogen-2. Corneal fibrosis may resolve over a period of months to years if the inciting injury is eliminated through keratocyte-facilitated regeneration of normal EBM, ensuing apoptosis of myofibroblasts, and reorganization of disordered extracellular matrix by repopulating keratocytes. We hypothesize the corneal model of fibrosis associated with defective BM regeneration and myofibroblast development after epithelial or parenchymal injury may be a paradigm for the development of fibrosis in other organs where chronic injury or defective BM underlies the pathophysiology of disease.	The purpose of this study was to investigate whether myofibroblast-related fibrosis (scarring) after microbial keratitis was modulated by the epithelial basement membrane (EBM) injury and regeneration. Rabbits were infected with Pseudomonas aeruginosa after epithelial scrape injury and the resultant severe keratitis was treated with topical tobramycin. Corneas were analyzed from one to four months after keratitis with slit lamp photos, immunohistochemistry for alpha-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) and monocyte lineage marker CD11b, and transmission electron microscopy. At one month after keratitis, corneas had no detectible EBM lamina lucida or lamina densa, and the central stroma was packed with myofibroblasts that in some eyes extended to the posterior corneal surface with damage to Descemet's membrane and the endothelium. At one month, a nest of stromal cells in the midst of the SMA + myofibroblasts in the stroma that were CD11b+ may be fibrocyte precursors to myofibroblasts. At two to four months after keratitis, the EBM fully-regenerated and myofibroblasts disappeared from the anterior 60-90% of the stroma of all corneas, except for one four-month post-keratitis cornea where anterior myofibroblasts were still present in one localized pocket in the cornea. The organization of the stromal extracellular matrix also became less disorganized from two to four months after keratitis but remained abnormal compared to controls at the last time point. Myofibroblasts persisted in the posterior 10%-20% of posterior stroma even at four months after keratitis in the central cornea where Descemet's membrane and the endothelium were damaged. This study suggests that the EBM has a critical role in modulating myofibroblast development and fibrosis after keratitis-similar to the role of EBM in fibrosis after photorefractive keratectomy. Damage to EBM likely allows epithelium-derived transforming growth factor beta (TGFβ) to penetrate the stroma and drive development and persistence of myofibroblasts. Eventual repair of EBM leads to myofibroblast apoptosis when the cells are deprived of requisite TGFβ to maintain viability. The endothelium and Descemet's membrane may serve a similar function modulating TGFβ penetration into the posterior stroma-with the source of TGFβ likely being the aqueous humor.	To investigate the production of the epithelial basement membrane (EBM) component mRNAs at time points before lamina lucida and lamina densa regeneration in anterior stromal cells after corneal injury that would heal with and without fibrosis. Rabbit corneas were removed from 2 to 19 days after -4.5D or -9.0D photorefractive keratectomy (PRK) with the VISX S4 IR laser. Corneas were evaluated with transmission electron microscopy (TEM) for full regeneration of the lamina lucida and the lamina densa. Laser capture microdissection (LCM) based quantitative real-time (RT)-PCR was used to quantitate the expression of mRNAs for laminin α-3 (LAMA3), perlecan, nidogen-1, and nidogen-2 in the anterior stroma. After -4.5D PRK, EBM was found to be fully regenerated at 8 to 10 days after surgery. At 4 days after PRK, the nidogen-2 and LAMA3 mRNAs levels were detected at statistically significantly lower levels in the anterior stroma of the -9.0D PRK corneas (where the EBM would not fully regenerate) compared to the -4.5D PRK corneas (where the EBM was destined to fully regenerate). At 7 days after PRK, nidogen-2 and LAMA3 mRNAs continued to be statistically significantly lower in the anterior stroma of the -9.0D PRK corneas compared to their expression in the anterior stroma of the -4.5D PRK corneas. Key EBM components LAMA3 and nidogen-2 mRNAs are expressed at higher levels in the anterior stroma during EBM regeneration in the -4.5D PRK corneas where the EBM is destined to fully regenerate and no haze developed compared to the -9.0D PRK corneas where the EBM will not fully regenerate and myofibroblast-related stromal fibrosis (haze) will develop.
Wu, Qingyu	Cardiovascular and Metabolic Sciences	31185295	30843660	30595185	29889025	30453347	29650693	29180304	28861913	28338078	27898523	Factor VII (FVII) is a key serine protease in blood coagulation. N-glycosylation in FVII has been shown to be critical for protein secretion. To date, however, the underlying biochemical mechanism remains unclear. Recently, we found that N-glycans in the transmembrane serine protease corin are critical for calnexin-assisted protein folding and extracellular expression. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that N-glycans in the FVII protease domain mediate calnexin-assisted protein folding and that naturally occurring F7 mutations abolishing N-glycosylation impair FVII secretion. We expressed human FVII wild-type (WT) and mutant proteins lacking one or both N-glycosylation sites in HEK293 and HepG2 cells in the presence or absence of a glucosidase inhibitor. FVII expression, secretion and binding to endoplasmic reticulum chaperones were examined by immune staining, co-immunoprecipitation, Western blotting, and ELISA. We found that N-glycosylation at N360 in the protease domain, but not N183 in the pro-peptide domain, of human FVII is required for protein secretion. Elimination of N-glycosylation at N360 impaired calnexin-assisted FVII folding and secretion. Similar results were observed in WT FVII when N-glycan-calnexin interaction was blocked by glucosidase inhibition. Naturally occurring F7 mutations abolishing N-glycosylation at N360 reduced FVII secretion in HEK293 and HepG2 cells. These results indicate that N-glycans in the FVII protease domain mediate calnexin-assisted protein folding and subsequent extracellular expression. Naturally occurring F7 mutations abolishing N-glycosylation in FVII may impair this mechanism, thereby reducing FVII levels in patients.	Transmembrane serine proteases have been implicated in the development and progression of solid and hematological cancers. Human airway trypsin-like protease 4 (HAT-L4) is a transmembrane serine protease expressed in epithelial cells and exocrine glands. In the skin, HAT-L4 is important for normal epidermal barrier function. Here, we report an unexpected finding of ectopic HAT-L4 expression in neutrophils and monocytes from acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients. Such expression was not detected in bone marrow cells from normal individuals or patients with chronic myeloid leukemia, acute lymphocytic leukemia and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. In AML patients who underwent chemotherapy, persistent HAT-L4 expression in bone marrow cells was associated with minimal residual disease and poor prognostic outcomes. In culture, silencing HAT-L4 expression in AML-derived THP-1 cells by short hairpin RNAs inhibited matrix metalloproteinase-2 activation and Matrigel invasion. In mouse xenograft models, inhibition of HAT-L4 expression reduced the proliferation and growth of THP-1 cell-derived tumors. Our results indicate that ectopic HAT-L4 expression is a pathological mechanism in AML and that HAT-L4 may be used as a cell surface marker for AML blast detection and targeting.	Preeclampsia increases the risk of heart disease. Defects in the protease corin, including the variant T555I/Q568P found in approximately 12% of blacks, have been associated with preeclampsia and cardiac hypertrophy. The objective of this study was to investigate the role of corin and the T555I/Q568P variant in preeclampsia-associated cardiac alterations using genetically modified mouse models. Virgin wild-type (WT) and corin knockout mice with or without a cardiac WT corin or T555I/Q568P variant transgene were mated at 3 or 6 months of age. Age- and genotype-matched virgin mice were used as controls. Cardiac morphology and function were assessed at gestational day 18.5 or 28 days postpartum by histologic and echocardiographic analyses. Pregnant corin knockout mice at gestational day 18.5 developed cardiac hypertrophy. Such a pregnancy-associated phenotype was not found in WT or corin knockout mice with a cardiac WT corin transgene. Pregnant corin knockout mice with a cardiac T555I/Q568P variant transgene developed cardiac hypertrophy similar to that in pregnant corin knockout mice. The cardiac hypertrophy persisted postpartum in corin knockout mice and was worse if the mice were mated at 6 instead of 3 months of age. There was no hypertrophy-associated decrease in cardiac function in pregnant corin knockout mice. In mice, corin deficiency causes cardiac hypertrophy during pregnancy. Replacement of cardiac WT corin, but not the T555I/Q568P variant found in blacks, rescues this phenotype, indicating a local antihypertrophic function of corin in the heart. Corin deficiency may represent an underlying mechanism in preeclampsia-associated cardiomyopathies.	Trypsin-like serine proteases are essential in physiological processes. Studies have shown that N-glycans are important for serine protease expression and secretion, but the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Here, we report a common mechanism of N-glycosylation in the protease domains of corin, enteropeptidase and prothrombin in calnexin-mediated glycoprotein folding and extracellular expression. This mechanism, which is independent of calreticulin and operates in a domain-autonomous manner, involves two steps: direct calnexin binding to target proteins and subsequent calnexin binding to monoglucosylated N-glycans. Elimination of N-glycosylation sites in the protease domains of corin, enteropeptidase and prothrombin inhibits corin and enteropeptidase cell surface expression and prothrombin secretion in transfected HEK293 cells. Similarly, knocking down calnexin expression in cultured cardiomyocytes and hepatocytes reduced corin cell surface expression and prothrombin secretion, respectively. Our results suggest that this may be a general mechanism in the trypsin-like serine proteases with N-glycosylation sites in their protease domains.	Pre-eclampsia (PE) is a chronic inflammatory disease in pregnancy, which is associated with enhanced blood coagulation and high thrombotic risk. To date, the mechanisms underlying such an association are not fully understood. Previous studies reported high levels of plasma deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) in PE women, but the cellular source of the circulation DNA remains unknown. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that activated neutrophils undergoing cell death, also called NETosis, may be responsible for the elevated plasma DNA levels in PE women. We analysed plasma samples from non-pregnant, normal pregnant and PE women and found high levels of double-stranded DNA, myeloperoxidase (an abundant neutrophil granular enzyme) and histones (the major nucleosome proteins) in PE-derived samples, indicating increased NETosis in the maternal circulation. The high plasma DNA levels positively correlated with enhanced blood coagulation in PE women. When isolated neutrophils from normal individuals were incubated with PE-derived plasma, an elevated NETosis-stimulating activity was detected. Further experiments showed that endothelial micro-particles, but not soluble proteins, in the plasma were primarily responsible for the NETosis-stimulating activity in PE women. These results indicate that circulating micro-particles from damaged maternal endothelium are a potent stimulator for neutrophil activation and NETosis in PE women. Given the pro-coagulant and pro-thrombotic nature of granular and nuclear contents from neutrophils, enhanced systemic NETosis may represent an important mechanism underlying the hyper-coagulability and increased thrombotic risk in PE.	Thrombophilia is a major complication in preeclampsia, a disease associated with placental hypoxia and trophoblast inflammation. Preeclampsia women are known to have increased circulating microparticles that are procoagulant, but the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. In this study, we sought to understand the mechanism connecting placental hypoxia, circulating microparticles, and thrombophilia. We analyzed protein markers on plasma microparticles from preeclampsia women and found that the increased circulating microparticles were mostly from endothelial cells. In proteomic studies, we identified HMGB1 (high-mobility group box 1), a proinflammatory protein, as a key factor from hypoxic trophoblasts in stimulating microparticle production in human umbilical vein endothelial cells. Immunodepletion or inhibition of HMGB1 in the conditioned medium from hypoxic human trophoblasts abolished the endothelial microparticle-stimulating activity. Conversely, recombinant HMGB1 stimulated microparticle production in cultured human umbilical vein endothelial cells. The microparticles from recombinant HMGB1-stimulated human umbilical vein endothelial cells promoted blood coagulation and neutrophil activation in vitro. Injection of recombinant HMGB1 in pregnant mice increased plasma endothelial microparticles and promoted blood coagulation. In preeclampsia women, elevated placental HMGB1 expression was detected and high levels of plasma HMGB1 correlated with increased plasma endothelial microparticles. Our results indicate that placental hypoxia-induced HMGB1 expression and release from trophoblasts are important mechanism underlying increased circulating endothelial microparticles and thrombophilia in preeclampsia.	Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) is a cardiac hormone essential for normal blood pressure and cardiac function. Corin is a transmembrane serine protease that activates ANP. Recently, we identified proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin-6 (PCSK6), also called PACE4, as the long-sought corin activator. Both corin and PCSK6 are expressed in cardiomyocytes, but corin activation occurs only on the cell surface. It remains unknown if cell membrane association is needed for PCSK6 to activate corin. Here we expressed corin deletion mutants in HEK293 cells to analyze the domain structures required for PCSK6-mediated activation. Our results show that soluble corin lacking the transmembrane domain was activated by PCSK6 in the conditioned medium but not intracellularly. Recombinant PCSK6 also activated the soluble corin under cell-free conditions. Moreover, PCSK6-mediated corin activation was not enhanced by cell membrane fractions. These results indicate that cell membrane association is unnecessary for PCSK6 to activate corin. Experiments with monensin that blocks PCSK6 secretion and immunostaining indicated that the soluble corin and PCSK6 were secreted via different intracellular pathways, which may explain the lack of corin activation inside the cell. We also found that the protein domains in the corin pro-peptide region were dispensable for PCSK6-mediated activation and that addition of heparan sulfate and chondroitin sulfate or treatment with heparinase or chondroitinase did not alter corin activation by PCSK6 in HEK293 cells. Together, our results provide important insights into the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying PCSK6-mediated corin activation that is critical for cardiovascular homeostasis.	Corin is a serine protease that activates atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP). CORIN gene variants have been reported in patients with hypertension. To date, however, the prevalence of CORIN variants in hypertensive patients remains unknown. To understand the prevalence and functional significance of CORIN variants in hypertension, we sequenced CORIN exons in 300 normal and 401 hypertensive individuals in a Chinese population and identified nine nonsynonymous variants, of which eight were not characterized previously. Among them, variants c.131A &gt; G (p.Tyr13Cys), c.376G &gt; T (p.Asp95Tyr), c.1094T &gt; G (p.Leu334Trp), and c.1667G &gt; A (p.Arg525His) occurred similarly in both normal and hypertensive individuals. Variants c1139G &gt; A (p.Arg349His), c.2689C &gt; T (p.Pro866Ser), and c.2864C &gt; T (p.Thr924Met) were found once each in hypertensive individuals. Variant c.1683G &gt; T (p.Arg530Ser) occurred preferentially in hypertensive individuals [10/401 (2.5%) vs. 1/300 (0.3%) in normal individuals; P = 0.023], which was confirmed in another independent cohort [9/368 (2.44%) in hypertensive and 2/377 (0.53%) in normal individuals; P = 0.033]. In biochemical and cell-based functional studies, variants p.Arg530Ser and p.Thr924Met, but not p.Tyr13Cys, p.Asp95Tyr, p.Leu334Trp, p.Arg349His, p.Arg525His, and p.Pro866Ser, exhibited reduced pro-ANP processing activity, which was caused by endoplasmic reticulum retention and poor zymogen activation, respectively. These results indicate that genetic variants impairing corin function are not uncommon in general populations and that such variants may be an important contributing factor in hypertension.	Membrane-bound proteases are essential for epidermal integrity. Human airway trypsin-like protease 4 (HAT-L4) is a type II transmembrane serine protease. Currently, its biochemical property, cellular distribution and physiological function remain unknown. Here we examined HAT-L4 expression and function in vitro and in vivo. In Western analysis, HAT-L4 expressed in transfected CHO cells appeared as a 48-kDa protein. Flow cytometry confirmed HAT-L4 expression on the cell surface with the expected membrane topology. RT-PCR and immunostaining experiments indicated that HAT-L4 was expressed in epithelial cells and exocrine glands in tissues including skin, esophagus, trachea, tongue, eye, bladder, testis and uterus. In the skin, HAT-L4 expression was abundant in keratinocytes and sebaceous glands. We generated HAT-L4 knockout mice by disrupting the Tmprss11f gene encoding HAT-L4. HAT-L4 knockout mice were viable and fertile. No defects were found in HAT-L4 knockout mice in hair growth, wound healing, water repulsion and body temperature regulation. Compared with wild-type controls, HAT-L4-deficient newborn mice had greater body fluid loss and higher mortality in a trans-epidermal body fluid loss test. In metabolic studies, HAT-L4-deficient adult mice drank water more frequently than wild-type controls did. These results indicate that HAT-L4 is important in epidermal barrier function to prevent body fluid loss.	Corin is a transmembrane protease that activates atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), an important hormone in regulating salt-water balance and blood pressure. This review focuses on the regulation of corin function and potential roles of corin defects in hypertensive, heart, and renal diseases. Proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin-6 has been identified as a primary enzyme that converts zymogen corin to an active protease. Genetic variants that impair corin intracellular trafficking, cell surface expression, and zymogen activation have been found in patients with hypertension, cardiac hypertrophy, and pre-eclampsia. Reduced corin expression has been detected in animal models of cardiomyopathies and in human failing hearts. Low levels of circulating soluble corin have been reported in patients with heart disease and stroke. Corin, ANP and natriuretic peptide receptor-A mRNAs, and proteins have been colocalized in human renal segments, suggesting a corin-ANP autocrine function in the kidney. Corin is a key enzyme in the natriuretic peptide system. The latest findings indicate that corin-mediated ANP production may act in a tissue-specific manner to regulate cardiovascular and renal function. Corin defects may contribute to major diseases such as hypertension, heart failure, pre-eclampsia, and kidney disease.
Yu, Jennifer	Cancer Biology	31180366	31099638	30118510	29642487	29198941	30542674	25895709	25712125	25464848	30546944	Radiation therapy remains one of the cornerstones of cancer management. For most cancers, it is the most effective, nonsurgical therapy to debulk tumors. Here, we describe a method to irradiate cancer cells with a linear accelerator. The advancement of linear accelerator technology has improved the precision and efficiency of radiation therapy. The biological effects of a wide range of radiation doses and dose rates continue to be an intense area of investigation. Use of linear accelerators can facilitate these studies using clinically relevant doses and dose rates.	Following the identification of key molecular alterations that provided superior prognostication and led to the updated 2016 World Health Organization (WHO) Central Nervous System (CNS) Tumor Classification, the understanding of glioma behavior has rapidly evolved. Mutations in isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH) 1 and 2 are present in the majority of adult grade 2 and 3 gliomas, and when used in conjunction with 1p/19q codeletion for classification, the prognostic distinction between grade 2 versus grade 3 is diminished. As such, the previously often used term of &quot;low-grade glioma,&quot; which referred to grade 2 gliomas, has now been replaced by the phrase &quot;lower-grade glioma&quot; to encompass both grade 2 and 3 tumors. Additional molecular characterization is ongoing to even further classify this heterogeneous group of tumors. With such a colossal shift in the understanding of lower-grade gliomas, management of disease is being redefined in the setting of emerging molecular-genetic biomarkers. In this article, we review recent progress and future directions regarding the surgical, radiotherapeutic, chemotherapeutic, and long-term management of adult lower-grade gliomas.	Radiation therapy is an integral part of treatment for patients with glioblastoma. New technological advances in linear accelerators have made extra-high dose rate irradiation possible. This shortens patient treatment time significantly compared to standard dose rate irradiation, but the biologic effects of extra high dose rate irradiation are poorly understood. Glioma stem-like cells (GSCs) are resistant to standard radiation and contribute to tumor progression. Here, we assess the therapeutic effect of extra high dose rate vs. standard dose rate irradiation on GSCs. GSCs were exposed to 2, 4 and 6 Gy X-irradiation at dose rates of 4.2 Gy/min or 21.2 Gy/min (400 monitoring units (MU)/min or 2100 MU/min). We analyzed cell survival with cell growth assays, tumorsphere formation assays and colony formation assays. Cell kill and self-renewal were dependent on the total dose of radiation delivered. However, there was no difference in survival of GSCs or DNA damage repair in GSCs irradiated at different dose rates. GSCs exhibited significant G1 and G2/M phase arrest and increased apoptosis with higher doses of radiation but there was no difference between the two dose rates at each given dose. In a GSC-derived preclinical model of glioblastoma, radiation extended animal survival, but there was no difference in survival in mice receiving different dose rates of radiation. We conclude that GSCs respond to larger fractions of radiation, but extra high dose rate irradiation has no significant biologic advantage in comparison with standard dose rate irradiation.	Neurodevelopmental programs are frequently dysregulated in cancer. Semaphorins are a large family of guidance cues that direct neuronal network formation and are also implicated in cancer. Semaphorins have two kinds of receptors, neuropilins and plexins. Besides their role in development, semaphorin signaling may promote or suppress tumors depending on their context. Sema3C is a secreted semaphorin that plays an important role in the maintenance of cancer stem-like cells, promotes migration and invasion, and may facilitate angiogenesis. Therapeutic strategies that inhibit Sema3C signaling may improve cancer control. This review will summarize the current research on the Sema3C pathway and its potential as a therapeutic target.	Tumor hypoxia is associated with poor patient survival and is a characteristic of glioblastoma. Notch signaling is implicated in maintaining glioma stem-like cells (GSCs) within the hypoxic niche, although the molecular mechanisms linking hypoxia to Notch activation have not been clearly delineated. Here we show that Vasorin is a critical link between hypoxia and Notch signaling in GSCs. Vasorin is preferentially induced in GSCs by a HIF1α/STAT3 co-activator complex and stabilizes Notch1 protein at the cell membrane. This interaction prevents Numb from binding Notch1, rescuing it from Numb-mediated lysosomal degradation. Thus, Vasorin acts as a switch to augment Notch signaling under hypoxic conditions. Vasorin promotes tumor growth and reduces survival in mouse models of glioblastoma, and its expression correlates with increased aggression of human gliomas. These findings provide mechanistic insights into how hypoxia promotes Notch signaling in glioma and identify Vasorin as a potential therapeutic target.	Cancer stem-like cells (CSCs) are a subset of cancer cells that are resistant to conventional radiotherapy and chemotherapy. As such, CSCs have been recognized as playing a large role in tumor initiation and recurrence. Although hyperthermia is broadly used in cancer treatment either alone or in combination with radio- or chemo-therapy, its potential to target CSCs is not well understood. In this review, we discuss different types of hyperthermia and potential mechanisms of action in cancer treatment, particularly in regards to killing CSCs.	Radiation therapy is the most effective adjuvant treatment modality for virtually all patients with high-grade glioma. Its ability to improve patient survival has been recognized for decades. Cancer stem cells provide new insights into how tumor biology is affected by radiation and the role that this cell population can play in disease recurrence. Glioma stem cells possess a variety of intracellular mechanisms to resist and even flourish in spite of radiation, and their proliferation and maintenance appear tied to supportive stimuli from the tumor microenvironment. This chapter reviews the basis for our current use of radiation to treat high-grade gliomas, and addresses this model in the context of therapeutically resistant stem cells. We discuss the available evidence highlighting current clinical efforts to improve radiosensitivity, and newer targets worthy of further development. 	Glioma stem-like cells (GSC) are a subpopulation of cells in tumors that are believed to mediate self-renewal and relapse in glioblastoma (GBM), the most deadly form of primary brain cancer. In radiation oncology, hyperthermia is known to radiosensitize cells, and it is reemerging as a treatment option for patients with GBM. In this study, we investigated the mechanisms of hyperthermic radiosensitization in GSCs by a phospho-kinase array that revealed the survival kinase AKT as a critical sensitization determinant. GSCs treated with radiation alone exhibited increased AKT activation, but the addition of hyperthermia before radiotherapy reduced AKT activation and impaired GSC proliferation. Introduction of constitutively active AKT in GSCs compromised hyperthermic radiosensitization. Pharmacologic inhibition of PI3K further enhanced the radiosensitizing effects of hyperthermia. In a preclinical orthotopic transplant model of human GBM, thermoradiotherapy reduced pS6 levels, delayed tumor growth, and extended animal survival. Together, our results offer a preclinical proof-of-concept for further evaluation of combined hyperthermia and radiation for GBM treatment.	Different cancer cell compartments often communicate through soluble factors to facilitate tumor growth. Glioma stem cells (GSCs) are a subset of tumor cells that resist standard therapy to contribute to disease progression. How GSCs employ a distinct secretory program to communicate with and nurture each other over the nonstem tumor cell (NSTC) population is not well defined. Here, we show that GSCs preferentially secrete Sema3C and coordinately express PlexinA2/D1 receptors to activate Rac1/nuclear factor (NF)-κB signaling in an autocrine/paracrine loop to promote their own survival. Importantly, Sema3C is not expressed in neural progenitor cells (NPCs) or NSTCs. Disruption of Sema3C induced apoptosis of GSCs, but not NPCs or NSTCs, and suppressed tumor growth in orthotopic models of glioblastoma. Introduction of activated Rac1 rescued the Sema3C knockdown phenotype in vivo. Our study supports the targeting of Sema3C to break this GSC-specific autocrine/paracrine loop in order to improve glioblastoma treatment, potentially with a high therapeutic index. 	Nearly half of melanoma patients develop brain metastases during the course of their disease. Despite advances in both localized radiation and systemic immunotherapy, brain metastases remain difficult to treat, with most patients surviving less than 5 months from the time of diagnosis. While both treatment regimens have individually shown considerable promise in treating metastatic melanoma, there is interest in combining these strategies to take advantage of potential synergy. In order to study the ability of local radiation and anti-PD-1 immunotherapy to induce beneficial anti-tumor immune responses against distant, unirradiated tumors, we used two mouse models of metastatic melanoma in the brain, representing BRAF mutant and non-mutant tumors. Combination treatments produced a stronger systemic anti-tumor immune response than either treatment alone. This resulted in reduced tumor growth and larger numbers of activated, cytotoxic CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells, even in the unirradiated tumor, indicative of an abscopal effect. The immune-mediated effects were present regardless of BRAF status. These data suggest that irradiation of brain metastases and anti-PD-1 immunotherapy together can induce abscopal anti-tumor responses that control both local and distant disease.
Zborowski, Maciej	Biomedical Engineering	29104346	28230974	26911917	26368657	29353957	24811334	24141316	24910468	22952572	22500468	Emerging microfluidic-based cell assays favor label-free red blood cell (RBC) depletion. Magnetic separation of RBC is possible because of the paramagnetism of deoxygenated hemoglobin but the process is slow for open-gradient field configurations. In order to increase the throughput, periodic arrangements of the unit magnets were considered, consisting of commercially available Nd-Fe-B permanent magnets and soft steel flux return pieces. The magnet design is uniquely suitable for multiplexing by magnet tessellation, here meaning the tiling of the magnet assembly cross-sectional plane by periodic repetition of the magnet and the flow channel shapes. The periodic pattern of magnet magnetizations allows a reduction of the magnetic material per channel with minimal distortion of the field cylindrical symmetry inside the magnet apertures. A number of such magnet patterns are investigated for separator performance, size and economy with the goal of designing an open-gradient magnetic separator capable of reducing the RBC number concentration a hundred-fold in 1 mL whole blood per hour.	The magnetic characteristics of hemoglobin (Hb) changes with the binding of dioxygen (O2) to the heme prosthetic groups of the globin chains: from paramagnetic ferrous Hb to diamagnetic ferrous oxyhemoglobin (oxyHb) with reversibly bound O2, or paramagnetic ferric methemoglobin (metHb). When multiplied over the number of Hb molecules in a red blood cell (RBC), the effect is detectable through motion analysis of RBCs in a high magnetic field and gradient. This motion is referred to as magnetophoretic mobility, which can be conveniently expressed as a fraction of the cell sedimentation velocity. In this Article, using a previously developed and reported instrument, cell tracking velocimetry (CTV), we are able to detect difference in Hb concentration in two RBC populations to a resolution of 1 × 10<sup>7</sup> Hb molecules per cell (4 × 10<sup>7</sup> atoms of Fe per cell or 4-5 femtograms of Fe). Similar resolution achieved with inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry requires on the order of 10<sup>5</sup>-10<sup>6</sup> cells and provides an average, whereas CTV provides a measurement for each cell. CTV analysis revealed that RBCs lose, on average, 17% of their Hb after 42 days of storage, the maximum FDA-approved length of time for the cold storage of RBCs in additive solution. This difference in Hb concentration was the result of routine RBC storage; clinical implications are discussed.	Conventional malaria parasite detection methods, such as rapid diagnostic tests (RDT) and light microscopy (LM), are not sensitive enough to detect low level parasites and identification of gametocytes in the peripheral blood. A modified and sensitive laboratory prototype, Magnetic Deposition Microscopy (MDM) was developed to increase the detection of sub-microscopic parasitaemia and estimation of gametocytes density in asymptomatic school children. Blood samples were collected from 303 asymptomatic school children from seven villages in Bagamoyo district in Tanzania. Participants were screened for presence of malaria parasites in the field using RDT and MDM whereas further examination of malaria parasites was done in the laboratory by LM. LM and MDM readings were used to calculate densities and estimate prevalence of asexual and sexual stages of the parasite. Plasmodium falciparum parasites (asexual and sexual stages) were detected in 23 (7.6 %), 52 (17.2 %), and 59 (19.5 %) out of 303 samples by LM, RDT and MDM respectively. Gametocytes were detected in 4 (1.3 %) and 12 (4.0 %) out of the same numbers of samples by LM, and MDM, respectively. Likewise, in vitro results conducted on two laboratory strains of P. falciparum, 3D7 and NF54 to assess MDM sensitivity on gametocytes detection and its application on concentrating gametocytes indicated that gametocytes were enriched by MDM by 10-fold higher than LM. Late stages of the parasite strains, 3D7 and NF54 were enriched by MDM by a factor of 20.5 and 35.6, respectively. MDM was more specific than LM and RDT by 87.5 % (95 %, CI 71.2-89.6 %) and 89.0 % (95 % CI 82.9-91.4) respectively. It was also found that MDM sensitivity was 62.5 % (95 % CI 49.5-71.8) when compared with RDT while with LM was 36.5 % (95 % CI 32.2-60.5). These findings provide strong evidence that MDM enhanced detection of sub-microscopic P. falciparum infections and estimation of gametocyte density compared to current malaria diagnostic tools. In addition, MDM is superior to LM in detecting sub-microscopic gametocytaemia. Therefore, MDM is a potential tool for low-level parasitaemia identification and quantification with possible application in malaria transmission research.	Connective tissue progenitors (CTPs) are a promising therapeutic agent for bone repair. Hyaluronan, a high molecular mass glycosaminoglycan, has been shown by us to be a suitable biomarker for magnetic separation of CTPs from bone marrow aspirates in a canine model. For the therapy to be applicable in humans, the magnetic separation process requires scale-up without compromising the viability of the cells. The scaled-up device presented here utilizes a circular Halbach array of diametrically magnetized, cylindrical permanent magnets. This allows precise control of the magnetic field gradient driving the separation, with theoretical analysis favoring a hexapole field. The separation vessel has the external diameter of a 50 mL conical centrifuge tube and has an internal rod that excludes cells from around the central axis. The magnet and separation vessel (collectively dubbed the hexapole magnet separator or HMS) was tested on four human and four canine bone marrow aspirates. Each CTP-enriched cell product was tested using cell culture bioassays as surrogates for in vivo engraftment quality. The magnetically enriched cell fractions showed statistically significant, superior performance compared to the unenriched and depleted cell fractions for all parameters tested, including CTP prevalence (CTPs per 10(6) nucleated cells), proliferation by colony forming unit (CFU) counts, and differentiation by staining for the presence of osteogenic and chondrogenic cells. The simplicity and speed of the HMS operation could allow both CTP isolation and engraftment during a single surgical procedure, minimizing trauma to patients and lowering cost to health care providers. 	Algae were investigated in the past as a potential source of biofuel and other useful chemical derivatives. Magnetic separation of algae by iron oxide nanoparticle binding to cells has been proposed by others for dewatering of cellular mass prior to lipid extraction. We have investigated feasibility of magnetic separation based on the presence of natural iron stores in the cell, such as the ferritin in Auxenochlorella protothecoides (A. p.) strains. The A. p. cell constructs were tested for inserted genes and for increased intracellular iron concentration by inductively coupled plasma atomic absorption (ICP-AA). They were grown in Sueoka's modified high salt media with added vitamin B1 and increasing concentration of soluble iron compound (FeCl3 EDTA, from 1× to 8× compared to baseline). The cell magnetic separation conditions were tested using a thin rectangular flow channel pressed against interpolar gaps of a permanent magnet forming a separation system of a well-defined fluid flow and magnetic fringing field geometry (up to 2.2 T and 1,000 T/m) dubbed &quot;magnetic deposition microscopy&quot;, or MDM. The presence of magnetic cells in suspension was detected by formation of characteristic deposition bands at the edges of the magnet interpolar gaps, amenable to optical scanning and microscopic examination. The results demonstrated increasing cellular Fe uptake with increasing Fe concentration in the culture media in wild type strain and in selected genetically-modified constructs, leading to magnetic separation without magnetic particle binding. The throughput in this study is not sufficient for an economical scale harvest.	Circulating tumor cells have emerged as prognostic biomarkers in the treatment of metastatic cancers of epithelial origins viz., breast, colorectal and prostate. These tumors express Epithelial Cell Adhesion Molecule (EpCAM) on their cell surface which is used as an antigen for immunoaffinity capture. However, EpCAM capture technologies are of limited utility for non-epithelial cancers such as melanoma. We report a method to enrich Circulating Melanoma Cells (CMCs) that does not presuppose malignant cell characteristics. CMCs were enriched by centrifugation of blood samples from healthy (N = 10) and patient (N = 11) donors, followed by RBC lysis and immunomagnetic depletion of CD45-positive leukocytes in a specialized magnetic separator. CMCs were identified by immunocytochemistry using Melan-A or S100B as melanoma markers and enumerated using automated microscopy image analyses. Separation was optimized for maximum sensitivity and recovery of CMCs. Our results indicate large number of CMCs in Stage IV melanoma patients. Analysis of survival suggested a trend toward decreased survival with increased number of CMCs. Moreover, melanoma-associated miRs were found to be higher in CMC-enriched fractions in two patients when compared with the unseparated samples, validating this method as applicable for molecular analyses. Negative selection is a promising approach for isolation of CMCs and other EpCAM -negative CTCs, and is amenable to molecular analysis of CMCs. Further studies are required to validate its efficacy at capturing specific circulating cells for genomic analysis, and xenograft studies. 	Emerging applications of rare cell separation and analysis, such as separation of mature red blood cells from hematopoietic cell cultures, require efficient methods of red blood cell (RBC) debulking. We have tested the feasibility of magnetic RBC separation as an alternative to centrifugal separation using an approach based on the mechanism of magnetic field-flow fractionation (MgFFF). A specially designed permanent magnet assembly generated a quadrupole field having a maximum field of 1.68 T at the magnet pole tips, zero field at the aperture axis, and a nearly constant radial field gradient of 1.75 T/mm (with a negligible angular component) inside a cylindrical aperture of 1.9 mm (diameter) and 76 mm (length). The cell samples included high-spin hemoglobin RBCs obtained by chemical conversion of hemoglobin to methemoglobin (met RBC) or by exposure to anoxic conditions (deoxy RBC), low-spin hemoglobin obtained by exposure of RBC suspension to ambient air (oxy RBC), and mixtures of deoxy RBC and cells from a KG-1a white blood cell (WBC) line. The observation that met RBCs did not elute from the channel at the lower flow rate of 0.05 mL/min applied for 15 min but quickly eluted at the subsequent higher flow rate of 2.0 mL/min was in agreement with FFF theory. The well-defined experimental conditions (precise field and flow characteristics) and a well-established FFF theory verified by studies with model cell systems provided us with a strong basis for making predictions about potential practical applications of the magnetic RBC separation. 	The emerging applications of biological cell separation to rare circulating tumor cell (CTC) detection and separation from blood rely on efficient methods of red blood cell (RBC) debulking. The two most widely used methods of centrifugation and RBC lysis have been associated with the concomitant significant losses of the cells of interest (such as progenitor cells or circulating tumor cells). Moreover, RBC centrifugation and lysis are not well adapted to the emerging diagnostic applications, relying on microfluidics and micro-scale total analytical systems. Therefore, magnetic RBC separation appears a logical alternative considering the high iron content of the RBC (normal mean 105 fg) as compared to the white blood cell iron content (normal mean 1.6 fg). The typical magnetic forces acting on a RBC are small, however, as compared to typical forces associated with centrifugation or the forces acting on synthetic magnetic nanoparticles used in current magnetic cell separations. This requires a significant effort in designing and fabricating a practical magnetic RBC separator. Applying advanced designs to the low cost, high power permanent magnets currently available, and building on the accumulated knowledge of the immunomagnetic cell separation methods and devices, an open gradient magnetic red blood cell (RBC) sorter was designed, fabricated and tested on label-free cell mixtures, with potential applications to RBC debulking from whole blood samples intended for diagnostic tests.	Using novel media formulations, it has been demonstrated that human placenta and umbilical cord blood-derived CD34+ cells can be expanded and differentiated into erythroid cells with high efficiency. However, obtaining mature and functional erythrocytes from the immature cell cultures with high purity and in an efficient manner remains a significant challenge. A distinguishing feature of a reticulocyte and maturing erythrocyte is the increasing concentration of hemoglobin and decreasing cell volume that results in increased cell magnetophoretic mobility (MM) when exposed to high magnetic fields and gradients, under anoxic conditions. Taking advantage of these initial observations, we studied a noninvasive (label-free) magnetic separation and analysis process to enrich and identify cultured functional erythrocytes. In addition to the magnetic cell separation and cell motion analysis in the magnetic field, the cell cultures were characterized for cell sedimentation rate, cell volume distributions using differential interference microscopy, immunophenotyping (glycophorin A), hemoglobin concentration and shear-induced deformability (elongation index, EI, by ektacytometry) to test for mature erythrocyte attributes. A commercial, packed column high-gradient magnetic separator (HGMS) was used for magnetic separation. The magnetically enriched fraction comprised 80% of the maturing cells (predominantly reticulocytes) that showed near 70% overlap of EI with the reference cord blood-derived RBC and over 50% overlap with the adult donor RBCs. The results demonstrate feasibility of label-free magnetic enrichment of erythrocyte fraction of CD34+ progenitor-derived cultures based on the presence of paramagnetic hemoglobin in the maturing erythrocytes.	Cell motion in a magnetic field reveals the presence of intracellular paramagnetic elements, such as iron or manganese. Under controlled field and liquid media composition, such motion previously allowed us to compare the paramagnetic contribution to cell magnetic susceptibility in erythrocytes differing in the spin state of heme associated with hemoglobin. The method is now tested on cells with less obvious paramagnetic properties: cell cultures derived from human cancers to determine if the magnetophoretic mobility (MM) measurement is sufficiently sensitive to the dysregulation of the intracellular iron metabolism as suggested by reports on loss of iron homeostasis in cancer. The cell lines included hepatocellular carcinoma (Hep 3B 2.1-7 and Hep G2), promyelocytic (HL-60) and chronic myelogenous (K-562) leukemias, histiocytic lymphoma (U-937), tongue (CAL 27) and pharyngeal (Detroit 562) carcinomas, and epitheloid carcinoma (HeLa), whose MM was measured in complete media with standard and elevated soluble iron (ferric nitrate and ferric ammonium citrate), against oxy- and met-hemoglobin erythrocytes used as controls. Different cell lines responded differently to the magnetic field and the soluble iron concentrations in culture media establishing the possibility of single cell elemental analysis by magnetophoresis and magnetic cell separation based upon differences in intracellular iron concentration.
Zhang, Bin	Genomic Medicine Institute	29735583	29444815	28327546	26494538	23709226	22745161	21795745	20817851	20007547	19183188	The LMAN1-MCFD2 complex serves as a cargo receptor for efficient transport of factor V (FV) and FVIII from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to the Golgi. Genetic deficiency of LMAN1 or MCFD2 in humans results in the moderate bleeding disorder combined FV and FVIII deficiency, with a similar phenotype previously observed in LMAN1-deficient mice. We now report that MCFD2-deficient mice generated by gene targeting also demonstrate reduced plasma FV and FVIII, with levels lower than those in LMAN1-deficient mice, similar to previous observations in LMAN1- and MCDF2-deficient humans. Surprisingly, FV and FVIII levels in doubly deficient mice match the higher levels observed in LMAN1-deficient mice. In contrast to the strain-specific partial lethality previously observed in LMAN1-null mice, MCFD2-null mice demonstrate normal survival in different genetic backgrounds, although doubly deficient mice exhibit partial embryonic lethality comparable to LMAN1-deficient mice. These results suggest that an alternative pathway is responsible for FV/FVIII secretion in doubly deficient mice and distinct cargo-specific functions for LMAN1 and MCFD2 within the ER-to-Golgi secretory pathway. We also observed decreased plasma levels of α1-antitrypsin (AAT) in male mice for all 3 groups of deficient mice. Comparable accumulation of AAT was observed in hepatocyte ER of singly and doubly deficient mice, demonstrating a role for LMAN1 and MCFD2 in efficient ER exit of AAT.	N-glycosylation is a common posttranslational modification of secreted and membrane proteins, catalyzed by the two enzymatic isoforms of the oligosaccharyltransferase, STT3A and STT3B. Missense mutations are the most common mutations in inherited diseases; however, missense mutations that generate extra, non-native N-glycosylation sites have not been well characterized. Coagulation factor VIII (FVIII) contains five consensus N-glycosylation sites outside its functionally dispensable B domain. We developed a computer program that identified hemophilia A mutations in FVIII that can potentially create ectopic glycosylation sites. We determined that 18 of these ectopic sites indeed become N-glycosylated. These sites span the domains of FVIII and are primarily associated with a severe disease phenotype. Using STT3A and STT3B knockout cells, we determined that ectopic glycosylation exhibited different degrees of dependence on STT3A and STT3B. By separating the effects of ectopic N-glycosylation from those due to underlying amino acid changes, we showed that ectopic glycans promote the secretion of some mutants, but impair the secretion of others. However, ectopic glycans that enhanced secretion could not functionally replace a native N-glycan in the same domain. Secretion-deficient mutants, but not mutants with elevated secretion levels, show increased association with the endoplasmic reticulum chaperones BiP (immunoglobulin heavy chain-binding protein) and calreticulin. Though secreted to different extents, all studied mutants exhibited lower relative activity than wild-type FVIII. Our results reveal differential impacts of ectopic N-glycosylation on FVIII folding, trafficking and activity, which highlight complex disease-causing mechanisms of FVIII missense mutations. Our findings are relevant to other secreted and membrane proteins with mutations that generate ectopic N-glycans.	Missense mutation is the most common mutation type in hemophilia. However, the majority of missense mutations remain uncharacterized. Here we characterize how hemophilia mutations near the unused N-glycosylation site of the A2 domain (N582) of FVIII affect protein conformation and intracellular trafficking. N582 is located in the middle of a short 310-helical turn (D580-S584), in which most amino acids have multiple hemophilia mutations. All 14 missense mutations found in this 310-helix reduced secretion levels of the A2 domain and full-length FVIII. Secreted mutants have decreased activities relative to WT FVIII. Selected mutations also lead to partial glycosylation of N582, suggesting that rapid folding of local conformation prevents glycosylation of this site in wild-type FVIII. Protease sensitivity, stability and degradation of the A2 domain vary among mutants, and between non-glycosylated and glycosylated species of the same mutant. Most of the mutants interact with the ER chaperone BiP, while only mutants with aberrant glycosylation interact with calreticulin. Our results show that the short 310-helix from D580 to S584 is critical for proper biogenesis of the A2 domain and FVIII, and reveal a range of molecular mechanisms by which FVIII missense mutations lead to moderate to severe hemophilia A.	COPII (coat protein complex-II) vesicles transport proteins from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to the Golgi. Higher eukaryotes have two or more paralogs of most COPII components. Here we characterize mice deficient for SEC23A and studied interactions of Sec23a null allele with the previously reported Sec23b null allele. SEC23A deficiency leads to mid-embryonic lethality associated with defective development of extraembryonic membranes and neural tube opening in midbrain. Secretion defects of multiple collagen types are observed in different connective tissues, suggesting that collagens are primarily transported in SEC23A-containing vesicles in these cells. Other extracellular matrix proteins, such as fibronectin, are not affected by SEC23A deficiency. Intracellular accumulation of unsecreted proteins leads to strong induction of the unfolded protein response in collagen-producing cells. No collagen secretion defects are observed in SEC23B deficient embryos. We report that E-cadherin is a cargo that accumulates in acini of SEC23B deficient pancreas and salivary glands. Compensatory increase of one paralog is observed in the absence of the second paralog. Haploinsufficiency of the remaining Sec23 paralog on top of homozygous inactivation of the first paralog leads to earlier lethality of embryos. Our results suggest that mammalian SEC23A and SEC23B transport overlapping yet distinct spectra of cargo in vivo. 	LMAN1 (ERGIC-53) is a key mammalian cargo receptor responsible for the export of a subset of glycoproteins from the endoplasmic reticulum. Together with its soluble coreceptor MCFD2, LMAN1 transports coagulation factors V (FV) and VIII (FVIII). Mutations in LMAN1 or MCFD2 cause the genetic bleeding disorder combined deficiency of FV and FVIII (F5F8D). The LMAN1 carbohydrate recognition domain (CRD) binds to both glycoprotein cargo and MCFD2 in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner. To understand the biochemical basis and regulation of LMAN1 binding to glycoprotein cargo, we solved crystal structures of the LMAN1-CRD bound to Man-α-1,2-Man, the terminal carbohydrate moiety of high mannose glycans. Our structural data, combined with mutagenesis and in vitro binding assays, define the central mannose-binding site on LMAN1 and pinpoint histidine 178 and glycines 251/252 as critical residues for FV/FVIII binding. We also show that mannobiose binding is relatively independent of pH in the range relevant for endoplasmic reticulum-to-Golgi traffic, but is sensitive to lowered Ca(2+) concentrations. The distinct LMAN1/MCFD2 interaction is maintained at these lowered Ca(2+) concentrations. Our results suggest that compartmental changes in Ca(2+) concentration regulate glycoprotein cargo binding and release from the LMAN1·MCFD2 complex in the early secretory pathway. 	In eukaryotic cells, newly synthesized secretory proteins require COPII (coat protein complex II) to exit the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). COPII contains five core components: SAR1, SEC23, SEC24, SEC13, and SEC31. SEC23 is a GTPase-activating protein that activates the SAR1 GTPase and also plays a role in cargo recognition. Missense mutations in the human COPII paralogues SEC23A and SEC23B result in craniolenticulosutural dysplasia and congenital dyserythropoietic anemia type II, respectively. We now report that mice completely deficient for SEC23B are born with no apparent anemia phenotype, but die shortly after birth, with degeneration of professional secretory tissues. In SEC23B-deficient embryonic pancreas, defects occur in exocrine and endocrine tissues shortly after differentiation. Pancreatic acini are completely devoid of zymogen granules, and the ER is severely distended. Similar ultrastructural alterations are also observed in salivary glands, but not in liver. Accumulation of proteins in the ER lumen activates the proapoptotic pathway of the unfolded protein response, suggesting a central role for apoptosis in the degeneration of these tissues in SEC23B-deficient embryos. Although maintenance of the secretory pathway should be required by all cells, our findings reveal a surprising tissue-specific dependence on SEC23B for the ER exit of highly abundant cargo, with high levels of SEC23B expression observed in professional secretory tissues. The disparate phenotypes in mouse and human could result from residual SEC23B function associated with the hypomorphic mutations observed in humans, or alternatively, might be explained by a species-specific shift in function between the closely related SEC23 paralogues.	The type 1-transmembrane protein LMAN1 (ERGIC-53) forms a complex with the soluble protein MCFD2 and cycles between the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and the ER-Golgi intermediate compartment (ERGIC). Mutations in either LMAN1 or MCFD2 cause the combined deficiency of factor V (FV) and factor VIII (FVIII; F5F8D), suggesting an ER-to-Golgi cargo receptor function for the LMAN1-MCFD2 complex. Here we report the analysis of LMAN1-deficient mice. Levels of plasma FV and FVIII, and platelet FV, are all reduced to ∼ 50% of wild-type in Lman1(-/-) mice, compared with the 5%-30% levels typically observed in human F5F8D patients. Despite previous reports identifying cathepsin C, cathepsin Z, and α1-antitrypsin as additional potential cargoes for LMAN1, no differences were observed between wild-type and Lman1(-/-) mice in the levels of cathepsin C and cathepsin Z in liver lysates or α1-antitrypsin levels in plasma. LMAN1 deficiency had no apparent effect on COPII-coated vesicle formation in an in vitro assay. However, the ER in Lman1(-/-) hepatocytes is slightly distended, with significant accumulation of α1-antitrypsin and GRP78. An unexpected, partially penetrant, perinatal lethality was observed for Lman1(-/-) mice, dependent on the specific inbred strain genetic background, suggesting a potential role for other, as yet unidentified LMAN1-dependent cargo proteins.	The LMAN1-MCFD2 (lectin, mannose binding 1/multiple coagulation factor deficiency protein 2) cargo receptor complex transports coagulation factors V (FV) and VIII (FVIII) from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to the ER-Golgi intermediate compartment (ERGIC). LMAN1 (ERGIC-53) is a hexameric transmembrane protein with a carbohydrate recognition domain (CRD) on the ER luminal side. Here, we show that mutations in the first beta sheet of the CRD abolish MCFD2 binding without affecting the mannose binding, suggesting that LMAN1 interacts with MCFD2 through its N-terminal beta sheet, consistent with recently reported crystal structures of the CRD-MCFD2 complex. Mutations in the Ca(2+)- and sugar-binding sites of the CRD disrupt FV and FVIII interactions, without affecting MCFD2 binding. This interaction is independent of MCFD2, as LMAN1 mutants defective in MCFD2 binding can still interact with FVIII. Thus, the CRD of LMAN1 contains distinct, separable binding sites for both its partner protein (MCFD2) and the cargo proteins (FV/FVIII). Monomeric LMAN1 mutants are defective in ER exit and unable to interact with MCFD2, suggesting that the oligomerization of LMAN1 is necessary for its cargo receptor function. These results point to a central role of LMAN1 in regulating the binding in the ER and the subsequent release in the ERGIC of FV and FVIII.	Combined deficiency of factor V and factor VIII (F5F8D) is a bleeding disorder caused by mutations in either LMAN1 or MCFD2. LMAN1 (ERGIC-53) and MCFD2 form a Ca(2+)-dependent cargo receptor that cycles between the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and the ER-Golgi intermediate compartment for efficient transport of FV/FVIII from the ER to the Golgi. Here we show that the C-terminal EF-hand domains are both necessary and sufficient for MCFD2 to interact with LMAN1. MCFD2 with a deletion of the entire N-terminal non-EF hand region still retains the LMAN1-binding function. Deletions that disrupt core structure of the EF-hand domains abolish LMAN1 binding. Circular dichroism spectroscopy studies on missense mutations localized to different structural elements of the EF-hand domains suggest that Ca(2+)-induced folding is important for LMAN1 interaction. The EF-hand domains also mediate the interaction with FV and FVIII. However, mutations in MCFD2 that disrupt the tertiary structure and abolish LMAN1 binding still retain the FV/FVIII binding activities, suggesting that this interaction is independent of Ca(2+)-induced folding of the protein. Our results suggest that the EF-hand domains of MCFD2 contain separate binding sites for LMAN1 and FV/FVIII that are essential for cargo receptor formation and cargo loading in the ER.	Combined deficiency of factor V (FV) and factor VIII (FVIII) (F5F8D) is a genetic disorder characterized by mild-to-moderate bleeding and coordinate reduction in plasma FV and FVIII levels, as well as platelet FV level. Recent studies identified mutations in two genes (LMAN1 and MCFD2) as the cause of F5F8D. Though clinically indistinguishable, MCFD2 mutations generally exhibit lower levels of FV and FVIII than LMAN1 mutations. LMAN1 is a mannose-specific lectin that cycles between the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and the ER-Golgi intermediate compartment. MCFD2 is an EF-hand domain protein that forms a calcium-dependent heteromeric complex with LMAN1 in cells. Missense mutations in the EF-hand domains of MCFD2 abolish the interaction with LMAN1. The LMAN1-MCFD2 complex may serve as a cargo receptor for the ER-to-Golgi transport of FV and FVIII, and perhaps a number of other glycoproteins. The B domain of FVIII may be important in mediating its interaction with the LMAN1-MCFD2 complex.
Zhao, Jianjun	Cancer Biology	30596388	29632340	24676133	26249174	26005854	24599134	22983447	22914623	22689860	20966935	The single-wall carbon nanotube (SWCNT) is a new type of nanoparticle, which has been used to deliver multiple kinds of drugs into cells, such as proteins, oligonucleotides, and synthetic small-molecule drugs. The SWCNT has customizable dimensions, a large superficial area, and can flexibly bind with drugs through different modifications on its surface; therefore, it is an ideal system to transport drugs into cells. Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) are a cluster of noncoding RNA longer than 200 nt, which cannot be translated to protein but play an important role in biological and pathophysiological processes. Metastasis-associated lung adenocarcinoma transcript 1 (MALAT1) is a highly conserved lncRNA. It was demonstrated that higher MALAT1 levels are related to the poor prognosis of various cancers, including multiple myeloma (MM). We have revealed that MALAT1 regulates DNA repair and cell death in MM; thus, MALAT1 can be considered as a therapeutic target for MM. However, the efficient delivery of the antisense oligo to inhibit/knockdown MALAT1 in vivo is still a problem. In this study, we modify the SWCNT with PEG-2000 and conjugate an anti-MALAT1 oligo to it, test the delivery of this compound in vitro, inject it intravenously into a disseminated MM mouse model, and observe a significant inhibition of MM progression, which indicates that SWCNT is an ideal delivery shuttle for anti-MALAT1 gapmer DNA.	Metastasis-associated lung adenocarcinoma transcript 1 (MALAT1) is a highly conserved long non-coding RNA (lncRNA). Overexpression of MALAT1 has been demonstrated to related to poor prognosis of multiple myeloma (MM) patients. Here, we demonstrated that MALAT1 plays important roles in MM DNA repair and cell death. We found bone marrow plasma cells from patients with monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) and MM express elevated MALAT1 and involve in alternative non-homozygous end joining (A-NHEJ) pathway by binding to PARP1 and LIG3, two key components of the A-NHEJ protein complex. Degradation of the MALAT1 RNA by RNase H using antisense gapmer DNA oligos in MM cells stimulated poly-ADP-ribosylation of nuclear proteins, defected the DNA repair pathway, and further provoked apoptotic pathways. Anti-MALAT1 therapy combined with PARP1 inhibitor or proteasome inhibitor in MM cells showed a synergistic effect in vitro. Furthermore, using novel single-wall carbon nanotube (SWCNT) conjugated with anti-MALAT1 oligos, we successfully knocked-down MALAT1 RNA in cultured MM cell lines and xenograft murine models. Most importantly, anti-MALAT1 therapy induced DNA damage and cell apoptosis in vivo, indicating that MALAT1 could serve as a potential novel therapeutic target for MM treatment.	MicroRNA (miRNA)-related single nucleotide polymorphisms (miR-SNPs) can affect cancer development, treatment efficacy and patients prognosis. We examined 6 miR-SNPs in miRNA processing machinery genes including exportin 5 (XPO5) (rs11077), Ran-GTPase (RAN) (rs14035), Dicer (rs3742330), Trinucleotide Repeat Containing 6B (TNRC6B) (rs9623117), GEMIN3 (rs197412), GEMIN4 (rs2740348) in 108 surgically resected HCC patients and evaluated the impact of these miR-SNPs on HCC outcome. Among the 6 SNPs, only the A/A genotype of rs11077 located in XPO5 3'UTR was identified to associated independently with worse survival in HCC patients by multivariate analysis with relative risk, 0.395; 95% CI, 0.167-0.933; p = 0.034. This is the first study reporting that polymorphisms related to miRSNPs have prognostic value in hepatocellular carcinoma and identify the A/A genotype of rs11077 SNP site located in XPO5 3'UTR can help to predict worse prognosis in patients.	Despite recent therapeutic advances that have doubled the median survival time of patients with multiple myeloma, intratumor genetic heterogeneity contributes to disease progression and emergence of drug resistance. miRNAs are noncoding small RNAs that play important roles in the regulation of gene expression and have been implicated in cancer progression and drug resistance. We investigated the role of the miR-221-222 family in dexamethasone-induced drug resistance in multiple myeloma using the isogenic cell lines MM1R and MM1S, which represent models of resistance and sensitivity, respectively. Analysis of array comparative genome hybridization data revealed gain of chromosome X regions at band p11.3, wherein the miR-221-222 resides, in resistant MM1R cells but not in sensitive MM1S cells. DNA copy number gains in MM1R cells were associated with increased miR-221-222 expression and downregulation of p53-upregulated modulator of apoptosis (PUMA) as a likely proapoptotic target. We confirmed PUMA mRNA as a direct target of miR-221-222 in MM1S and MM1R cells by both gain-of-function and loss-of-function studies. In addition, miR-221-222 treatment rendered MM1S cells resistant to dexamethasone, whereas anti-miR-221-222 partially restored the dexamethasone sensitivity of MM1R cells. These studies have uncovered a role for miR-221-222 in multiple myeloma drug resistance and suggest a potential therapeutic role for inhibitors of miR-221-222 binding to PUMA mRNA as a means of overcoming dexamethasone resistance in patients. The clinical utility of this approach is predicated on the ability of antisense miR-221-222 to increase survival while reducing tumor burden and is strongly supported by the metastatic propensity of MM1R cells in preclinical mouse xenograft models of multiple myeloma. Moreover, our observation of increased levels of miR-221-222 with decreased PUMA expression in multiple myeloma cells from patients at relapse versus untreated controls suggests an even broader role for miR-221-222 in drug resistance and provides a rationale for the targeting of miR-221-222 as a means of improving patient outcomes.	B cell malignancies frequently colonize the bone marrow. The mechanisms responsible for this preferential homing are incompletely understood. Here we studied multiple myeloma (MM) as a model of a terminally differentiated B cell malignancy that selectively colonizes the bone marrow. We found that extracellular CyPA (eCyPA), secreted by bone marrow endothelial cells (BMECs), promoted the colonization and proliferation of MM cells in an in vivo scaffold system via binding to its receptor, CD147, on MM cells. The expression and secretion of eCyPA by BMECs was enhanced by BCL9, a Wnt-β-catenin transcriptional coactivator that is selectively expressed by these cells. eCyPA levels were higher in bone marrow serum than in peripheral blood in individuals with MM, and eCyPA-CD147 blockade suppressed MM colonization and tumor growth in the in vivo scaffold system. eCyPA also promoted the migration of chronic lymphocytic leukemia and lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma cells, two other B cell malignancies that colonize the bone marrow and express CD147. These findings suggest that eCyPA-CD147 signaling promotes the bone marrow homing of B cell malignancies and offer a compelling rationale for exploring this axis as a therapeutic target for these malignancies. 	Wnt/β-catenin signaling underlies the pathogenesis of a broad range of human cancers, including the deadly plasma cell cancer multiple myeloma. In this study, we report that downregulation of the tumor suppressor microRNA miR-30-5p is a frequent pathogenetic event in multiple myeloma. Evidence was developed that miR-30-5p downregulation occurs as a result of interaction between multiple myeloma cells and bone marrow stromal cells, which in turn enhances expression of BCL9, a transcriptional coactivator of the Wnt signaling pathway known to promote multiple myeloma cell proliferation, survival, migration, drug resistance, and formation of multiple myeloma cancer stem cells. The potential for clinical translation of strategies to re-express miR-30-5p as a therapeutic approach was further encouraged by the capacity of miR-30c and miR-30 mix to reduce tumor burden and metastatic potential in vivo in three murine xenograft models of human multiple myeloma without adversely affecting associated bone disease. Together, our findings offer a preclinical rationale to explore miR-30-5p delivery as an effective therapeutic strategy to eradicate multiple myeloma cells in vivo.	miRs play a critical role in tumor pathogenesis as either oncogenes or tumor-suppressor genes. However, the role of miRs and their regulation in response to proteasome inhibitors in multiple myeloma (MM) is unclear. In the current study, miR profiling in proteasome inhibitor MLN2238-treated MM.1S MM cells shows up-regulation of miR33b. Mechanistic studies indicate that the induction of miR33b is predominantly via transcriptional regulation. Examination of miR33b in patient MM cells showed a constitutively low expression. Overexpression of miR33b decreased MM cell viability, migration, colony formation, and increased apoptosis and sensitivity of MM cells to MLN2238 treatment. In addition, overexpression of miR33b or MLN2238 exposure negatively regulated oncogene PIM-1 and blocked PIM-1 wild-type, but not PIM-1 mutant, luciferase activity. Moreover, PIM-1 overexpression led to significant abrogation of miR33b- or MLN2238-induced cell death. SGI-1776, a biochemical inhibitor of PIM-1, triggered apoptosis in MM. Finally, overexpression of miR33b inhibited tumor growth and prolonged survival in both subcutaneous and disseminated human MM xenograft models. Our results show that miR33b is a tumor suppressor that plays a role during MLN2238-induced apoptotic signaling in MM cells, and these data provide the basis for novel therapeutic strategies targeting miR33b in MM.	Deregulated Wnt/β-catenin signaling underlies the pathogenesis of a broad range of human cancers, yet the development of targeted therapies to disrupt the resulting aberrant transcription has proved difficult because the pathway comprises large protein interaction surfaces and regulates many homeostatic functions. Therefore, we have directed our efforts toward blocking the interaction of β-catenin with B cell lymphoma 9 (BCL9), a co-activator for β-catenin-mediated transcription that is highly expressed in tumors but not in the cells of origin. BCL9 drives β-catenin signaling through direct binding mediated by its α-helical homology domain 2. We developed a stabilized α helix of BCL9 (SAH-BCL9), which we show targets β-catenin, dissociates native β-catenin/BCL9 complexes, selectively suppresses Wnt transcription, and exhibits mechanism-based antitumor effects. SAH-BCL9 also suppresses tumor growth, angiogenesis, invasion, and metastasis in mouse xenograft models of Colo320 colorectal carcinoma and INA-6 multiple myeloma. By inhibiting the BCL9-β-catenin interaction and selectively suppressing oncogenic Wnt transcription, SAH-BCL9 may serve as a prototype therapeutic agent for cancers driven by deregulated Wnt signaling.	Bruton tyrosine kinase (Btk) has a well-defined role in B-cell development, whereas its expression in osteoclasts (OCs) further suggests a role in osteoclastogenesis. Here we investigated effects of PCI-32765, an oral and selective Btk inhibitor, on osteoclastogenesis as well as on multiple myeloma (MM) growth within the BM microenvironment. PCI-32765 blocked RANKL/M-CSF-induced phosphorylation of Btk and downstream PLC-γ2 in OCs, resulting in diminished TRAP5b (ED50 = 17 nM) and bone resorption activity. PCI-32765 also inhibited secretion of multiple cytokines and chemokines from OC and BM stromal cell cultures from both normal donors (ED50 = 0.5 nM) and MM patients. It decreased SDF-1-induced migration of MM cells, and down-regulated MIP1-α/CCL3 in MM cells. It also blocked MM cell growth and survival triggered by IL-6 or coculture with BM stromal cells or OCs in vitro. Importantly, PCI-32765 treatment significantly inhibits in vivo MM cell growth (P &lt; .03) and MM cell-induced osteolysis of implanted human bone chips in SCID mice. Moreover, PCI-32765 prevents in vitro colony formation by stem-like cells from MM patients. Together, these results delineate functional sequelae of Btk activation mediating osteolysis and growth of MM cells, supporting evaluation of PCI-32765 as a novel therapeutic in MM.	B-cell lymphoma 6 (BCL6) and PR domain containing 1 (PRDM1) are considered as master regulators for germinal center (GC) formation and terminal B-cell differentiation. Dysregulation of BCL6 and PRDM1 has been associated with lymphomagenesis. Here, we show for the first time that direct cell-cell contact between follicular dendritic cells (FDC) and B-lymphocytes, by influencing the expression of a set of microRNAs (miRNAs), regulates the expression of BCL6 and PRDM1. We identify that, on cell adhesion to FDC, FDC induces upregulation of PRDM1 expression through downregulation of miR-9 and let-7 families and induces downregulation of BCL-6 through upregulation of miR-30 family in B-lymphocytes and lymphoma cells. We further demonstrate that the miR-30 family directly controls BCL-6 expression and miR-9-1 and let-7a directly control PRDM-1 expression through targeting their 3'UTR, mediating the FDC effect. Our studies define a novel regulatory mechanism in which the FDC, through induction of miRNAs in B-lymphocytes, orchestrates the regulation of transcription factors, promotes germinal center B-cell survival and differentiation. Dysregulation of miRNAs may interfere with B-cell survival and maturation, thus representing a novel molecular mechanism, as well as a potential therapeutic target in B-cell lymphomas.
Zutshi, Massarat	Biomedical Engineering	29112569	28785819	28267010	27050606	24797828	23147650	23135588	22564198	22006493	21895926	Regenerating muscle at a time remote from injury requires re-expression of cytokines to attract stem cells to start and sustain the process of repair. We aimed to evaluate the sustainability of muscle regeneration after treatment with a nonviral plasmid expressing stromal cell-derived factor 1. This was a randomized study. The study was conducted with animals in a single research facility. Fifty-six female age-/weight-matched Sprague-Dawley rats underwent excision of the ventral half of the anal sphincter complex. Three weeks later, rats were randomly allocated (n = 8) to one of the following groups: no treatment, 100 μg of plasmid encoding stromal cell-derived factor 1 injected locally, local injection of plasmid and 8 × 10 bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells, and plasmid encoding stromal cell-derived factor 1 injected locally with injection of a gelatin scaffold mixed with bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells. Anal manometry, histology, immunohistochemistrym and morphometry were performed 8 weeks after treatment. Protein expression of cytokines CXCR4 and Myf5 was investigated 1 week after treatment (n = 6 per group). ANOVA was used, with p &lt; 0.0083 indicating significant differences for anal manometry and p &lt; 0.05 for all other statistical analysis. Eight weeks after treatment, all of the groups receiving the plasmid had significantly higher anal pressures than controls and more organized muscle architecture in the region of the defect. Animals receiving plasmid alone had significantly greater muscle in the defect (p = 0.03) than either animals with injury alone (p = 0.02) or those receiving the plasmid, cells, and scaffold (p = 0.03). Both smooth and skeletal muscles were regenerated significantly more after plasmid treatment. There were no significant differences in the protein levels of CXCR4 or Myf5. The study was limited by its small sample size and because stromal cell-derived factor 1 was not blocked. A plasmid expressing stromal cell-derived factor 1 may be sufficient to repair an injured anal sphincter even long after the injury and in the absence of mesenchymal stem cell or scaffold treatments. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A451.	For patients with rectal prolapse undergoing Ventral Rectopexy (VR), the impact of prior prolapse surgery on prolapse recurrence is not well described. The purpose of this study was to compare recurrence rates after VR in patients undergoing primary and repeat rectal prolapse repairs. This study is a prospective cohort study. IRB-approved prospective data registry of consecutive patients undergoing VR for full-thickness external rectal prolapse between 2009 and 2015. Rectal prolapse recurrence was defined as either external prolapse through the anal sphincters or symptomatic rectal mucosa prolapse warranting additional surgery. Preoperative and postoperative morbidity and functional outcomes were analyzed. Actuarial recurrence rates were calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method. A total of 108 VRs were performed during the study period. Seventy-two were primary and 36 repeat repairs. Seven cases were open, 23 laparoscopic, and 78 robotic. Six cases were converted from laparoscopic/robotic to open. In 63 patients, VR was combined with gynecological procedures. There were no statistical differences between primary or recurrent prolapse for the following: demographics, operative time, concomitant gynecologic procedures, complications, blood loss, and graft material type. Length of stay was longer in patients with a history of prior prolapse surgery (p = 0.01). Prolapse recurrence rates for primary repairs were reported at 1.4, 6.9, and 9.7% and for recurrent prolapse procedures 13.9, 25, and 25% at 1, 3, and 5 years (p = 0.13). Mean length of follow-up was similar between groups. Time to recurrence was significantly shorter in patients undergoing repeat prolapse surgery 8.8 vs 30.7 months (p = 0.03). VR is a better option for patients undergoing primary rectal prolapse repair.	Healing of an anal sphincter defect at a time distant from injury is a challenge. We aimed to investigate whether re-establishing stem cell homing at the site of an anal sphincter defect when cytokine expression has declined using a plasmid engineered to express stromal derived factor 1 with or without mesenchymal stem cells can improve anatomic and functional outcome. This was a randomized animal study. Thirty-two female age- and weight-matched Sprague Dawley rats underwent 50% excision of the anal sphincter complex. Three weeks after injury, 4 interventions were randomly allocated (n = 8), including no intervention, 100-μg plasmid, plasmid and 800,000 cells, and plasmid with a gelatin scaffold mixed with cells. The differences in anal sphincter resting pressures just before and 4 weeks after intervention were used for functional analysis. Histology was analyzed using Masson staining. One-way ANOVA followed by the Tukey post hoc test was used for pressure and histological analysis. All 3 of the intervention groups had a significantly greater change in resting pressure (plasmid p = 0.009; plasmid + cells p = 0.047; plasmid + cells in scaffold p = 0.009) compared with the control group. The plasmid-with-cells group showed increased organization of muscle architecture and increased muscle percentage, whereas the control group showed disorganized architecture at the site of the defect. Histological quantification revealed significantly more muscle at the site of defect in the plasmid-plus-cells group compared with the control group, which had the least muscle. Quantification of connective tissue revealed significantly less fibrosis at the site of defect in the plasmid and plasmid-plus-cells groups compared with the control group. Midterm evaluation and muscle morphology were not defined. At this midterm follow-up, local delivery of a stromal derived factor 1 plasmid with or without local mesenchymal stem cells enhanced anal sphincter muscle regeneration long after an anal sphincter injury, thereby improving functional outcome. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A324.	We have explored cell-based therapy to aid anal sphincter repair, but a conditioning injury is required to direct stem cells to the site of injury because symptoms usually manifest at a time remote from injury. We aimed to investigate the effect of local electrical stimulation followed by mesenchymal stem cell delivery on anal sphincter regeneration at a time remote from injury. With the use of a rat model, electrical stimulation parameters and cell delivery route were selected based on in vivo cytokine expression and luciferase-labeled cell imaging of the anal sphincter complex. Three weeks after a partial anal sphincter excision, rats were randomly allocated to 4 groups based on different local interventions: no treatment, daily electrical stimulation for 3 days, daily stimulation for 3 days followed by stem cell injection on the third day, and daily electrical stimulation followed by stem cell injection on the first and third days. Histology-assessed anatomy and anal manometry evaluated physiology 4 weeks after intervention. The electrical stimulation parameters that significantly upregulated gene expression of homing cytokines also achieved mesenchymal stem cell retention when injected directly in the anal sphincter complex in comparison with intravascular and intraperitoneal injections. Four weeks after intervention, there was significantly more new muscle in the area of injury and significantly improved anal resting pressure in the group that received daily electrical stimulation for 3 days followed by a single injection of 1 million stem cells on the third day at the site of injury. This was a pilot study and therefore was not powered for functional outcome. In this rat injury model with optimized parameters, electrical stimulation with a single local mesenchymal stem cell injection administered 3 weeks after injury significantly improved both new muscle formation in the area of injury and anal sphincter pressures.	This research demonstrates the regenerative effects of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) on the injured anal sphincter by comparing anal sphincter pressures following intramuscular and serial intravascular MSC infusion in a rat model of anal sphincter injury. Fifty rats were divided into injury (n = 35) and no injury (NI; n = 15) groups. Each group was further divided into i.m., serial i.v., or no-treatment (n = 5) groups and followed for 5 weeks. The injury consisted of an excision of 25% of the anal sphincter complex. Twenty-four hours after injury, 5 × 10(5) green fluorescent protein-labeled MSCs in 0.2 ml of phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) or PBS alone (sham) were injected into the anal sphincter for i.m. treatment; i.v. and sham i.v. treatments were delivered daily for 6 consecutive days via the tail vein. Anal pressures were recorded before injury and 10 days and 5 weeks after treatment. Ten days after i.m. MSC treatment, resting and peak pressures were significantly increased compared with those in sham i.m. treatment (p &lt; .001). When compared with the NI group, the injury groups had anal pressures that were not significantly different 5 weeks after i.m./i.v. treatment. Both resting and peak pressures were also significantly increased after i.m./i.v. MSC treatment compared with treatment with PBS (p &lt; .001), suggesting recovery. Statistical analysis was done using paired t test with Bonferroni correction. Marked decrease in fibrosis and scar tissue was seen in both MSC-treated groups. Both i.m. and i.v. MSC treatment after injury caused an increase in anal pressures sustained at 5 weeks, although fewer cells were injected i.m. The MSC-treated groups showed less scarring than the PBS-treated groups, with the i.v. infusion group showing the least scarring. 	Fecal incontinence reduces the quality of life of many women but has no long-term cure. Research on mesenchymal stem cell (MSC)-based therapies has shown promising results. The primary aim of this study was to evaluate functional recovery after treatment with MSCs in two animal models of anal sphincter injury. Seventy virgin female rats received a sphincterotomy (SP) to model episiotomy, a pudendal nerve crush (PNC) to model the nerve injuries of childbirth, a sham SP, or a sham PNC. Anal sphincter pressures and electromyography (EMG) were recorded after injury but before treatment and 10 days after injury. Twenty-four hours after injury, each animal received either 0.2 ml saline or 2 million MSCs labelled with green fluorescing protein (GFP) suspended in 0.2 ml saline, either intravenously (IV) into the tail vein or intramuscularly (IM) into the anal sphincter. MSCs delivered IV after SP resulted in a significant increase in resting anal sphincter pressure and peak pressure, as well as anal sphincter EMG amplitude and frequency 10 days after injury. MSCs delivered IM after SP resulted in a significant increase in resting anal sphincter pressure and anal sphincter EMG frequency but not amplitude. There was no improvement in anal sphincter pressure or EMG with in animals receiving MSCs after PNC. GFP-labelled cells were not found near the external anal sphincter in MSC-treated animals after SP. MSC treatment resulted in significant improvement in anal pressures after SP but not after PNC, suggesting that MSCs could be utilized to facilitate recovery after anal sphincter injury.	Stimulation of the pudendal nerve or the anal sphincter could provide therapeutic options for fecal incontinence with little involvement of other organs. The goal of this project was to assess the effects of pudendal nerve and anal sphincter stimulation on bladder and anal pressures. Ten virgin female Sprague Dawley rats were randomly allocated to control (n = 2), perianal stimulation (n = 4), and pudendal nerve stimulation (n = 4) groups. A monopolar electrode was hooked to the pudendal nerve or placed on the anal sphincter. Aballoon catheter was inserted into the anus to measure anal pressure, and a catheter was inserted into the bladder via the urethra to measure bladder pressure. Bladder and anal pressures were measured with different electrical stimulation parameters and different timing of electrical stimulation relative to spontaneous anal sphincter contractions. Increasing stimulation current had the most dramatic effect on both anal and bladder pressures. An immediate increase in anal pressure was observed when stimulating either the anal sphincter or the pudendal nerve at stimulation values of 1 mA or 2 mA. No increase in anal pressure was observed for lower current values. Bladder pressure increased at high current during anal sphincter stimulation, but not as much as during pudendal nerve stimulation. Increased bladder pressure during anal sphincter stimulation was due to contraction of the abdominal muscles. Electrical stimulation caused an increase in anal pressures with bladder involvement only at high current. These initial results suggest that electrical stimulation can increase anal sphincter pressure, enhancing continence control.	Studies investigating the functional outcome after restorative surgery for rectal cancer have mainly focused on the effect of different surgical techniques on bowel habit or sexual activity at a single time-point. The aim of this study was to assess, longitudinally, the effect of rectal cancer treatment on bowel function, quality of life and sexual activity. The study parameters were assessed using self-administered questionnaires, including the Short Form 36 (SF-36), repeatedly, over a 5-year period. Patient details were obtained from the Cleveland Clinic prospective database. There were 260 (186 male) patients. The mean ages of male and female patients at the time of surgery were 60.5 and 57.5 years, respectively. There was no significant difference in comorbidity or stage between the groups. Women had a better overall survival. More women than men had postoperative radiation and perioperative blood transfusions. Men had a higher percentage of hand-sewn anastomoses (23.9%vs 10.8%, P = 0.018), but there was no overall difference in the mean level of anastomosis (2.3 cm vs 1.9 cm, P = 0.38). Men had worse nocturnal bowel function, more incontinence and a poorer mental component score on the SF-36. Pad use increased over time to a greater degree in women. Sexual activity, which was similar in men and women at baseline, had fallen at 5 years in both genders. After restorative resection for rectal cancer, bowel function is worse in men than in women, especially night evacuation at 3 and 5 years postoperatively. Sexual function in both genders declines sharply initially within 1 year postoperatively and more gradually over 5 years.	Stem cells are an emerging treatment for regeneration of damaged anal sphincter tissues. Homing to the site of injury can be potentiated by stromal derived factor 1 (SDF-1) and monocyte chemotactic protein 3 (MCP-3) expression. The effects of electrical stimulation (ES) on upregulation of these cytokines were investigated. The anal sphincter complex of Sprague Dawley rats was stimulated with current of 0.25 mA, pulse duration of 40 pulses/s, pulse width of 100 μs, and frequency of 100 Hz for 1 or 4 h. Sham was created using the same needle which was inserted into the anal sphincter without electrical stimulation in different groups of animals. The rats were euthanized immediately or 24 h after stimulation. Cytokine analysis was performed using real-time polymerase chain reaction. Statistical analysis was performed. Results are presented as a fold increase compared to sham that was normalized to 1. SDF-1 and MCP-3 immediately after 1 h were 2.5 ± 0.77 and 3.1± 0.93 vs. sham, respectively, showing significant increase. After 1-h stimulation and euthanasia 24 h after, SDF-1 and MCP-3 were 1.49 ± 0.16 and 1.51± 0.14 vs. sham, respectively, showing significant increase. Immediately and 24 h after 4-h stimulation, SDF-1 was 1.21 ± 0.16 and 0.54 ± 0.16 vs. sham, respectively, and was not significantly different. Immediately and 24 h after 4-h stimulation, MCP-3 was 1.29 ± 0.41 and 0.35 ±1.0 vs. sham, respectively, and was not significantly different. SDF-1 and MCP-3 after 1 h were significantly higher than after 4 h of stimulation at both time points. Electrical stimulation for 1 h significantly upregulates SDF-1 and MCP-3 expression that persists for 24 h. Prolonged stimulation reduced chemokine expression, suggesting electrolysis of cells.	Long-term results of the overlapping sphincter repair (OSR) have been disappointing, attributed to poor tissue quality that deteriorates with time. Biological grafts enforce tissues. The aim was to compare functional outcome and quality of life at 1 year with and without Permacol reinforcement to evaluate short-term benefit. From November 2007 to November 2008, women undergoing OSR using Permacol (group 1, n = 10) under institutional review board approval (safety trial) were age matched with patients from an institutional review board approved database (group 2, n = 10) who underwent the traditional OSR. Permacol mesh was placed under the two overlapped muscles. Group 2 underwent traditional repair. Preoperative and postoperative management of the groups was similar. The Fecal Incontinence Severity Index (FISI), the Cleveland Clinic Incontinence Score (CCFIS) and the Fecal Incontinence Quality of Life (FIQL) scale were used preoperatively and 1 year post-surgery. No significant differences in demographics, symptom duration, number of vaginal deliveries, comorbidities and symptom severity were noted. Group 2 underwent concomitant procedures. Group 1 reported no complications. Group 2 reported urinary retention and dehiscence. A significant difference was found in preoperative and postoperative FIQL subscales of coping/behaviour between groups. However, comparing the pre and post scores, significant improvements on FISI (P = 0.02), the CCFIS (P = 0.005) and two subscales of FIQL (coping/behaviour, P = 0.02, and embarrassment, P = 0.01) were found in group 1. Patient satisfaction was higher in group 1. Biologic tissue enhancers (Permacol) do not add morbidity. Sphincter augmentation results in significant improvement in continence and quality of life scores compared with the preoperative scores in the short term over traditional repair. Long-term studies are needed to determine if this effect is sustained.
